30 Minutes Human # 00025
Post-Apocalyptic, Memories, Visitor, Caravan, Tomatoes
August 17, 2025

The music coming from the microwave was soothing. She enjoyed it. Sometimes she just microwaved something, or nothing, for the sake of those few notes at the end. They temporarily cleared up memories from before, from when she was very young.
She didn’t remember her parents too well. What she had were hazy recollections at best, and sometimes she feared that those recollections were her more her imagination filling in the gaps than actual memories. She can’t have been more than three when she last saw them, so how would she be able to remember them well?
What she had in her mind, and what brought her peace when she lay alone at night staring at the dark ceiling and wondering about Tomorrow, was to play in the early days of Yesterday and remember the man in the overalls and the mustache and the smile and the hairy arms, and the woman in the heels and the beige skirt, and how happy and safe they made her feel. She only ever remembered one room and never tried to force this; she figured that if she pushed too hard for another memory (say in a park, or a car, or the street), she might end up triggering her imagination, and what little she did recall would be corrupted.
She opened the microwave and extracted the wrap. She’d been lucky to get some beans the previous morning, and they were still good. Beans, tomato, lettuce, a bit of bacon. A better meal than she was used to.
She sat at the stool, glanced toward the small, porthole-like window in the upper corner of the wall, and toasted her tomato juice in that direction. To the stars, where hope lay.
She was almost finished when there came a firm knock at the door. She glanced at the shotgun—it was in its hidden place near the entrance—at the porthole—only stars—and at the kitchen, for no reason in particular. As she stood she downed what she was chewing on with a sip of juice, stuffed the rest in her mouth, and then made for the basin to wipe her face before checking the peephole.
Gabriel seemed to be alone.
“Yeah Gabo, what’s up?”
“Hey. We need tomatoes. Something happened. It’s just me, come on.”
She opened the door, instinctively studying him before allowing him inside. He wore his usual dirty garb, the overcoat made out of burlap, the denim pants whose original color she couldn’t begin to guess, and his ever-present work boots. Gabriel’s face was also particularly dirty. It must’ve been a long day.
“Come on in. What’s up?”
She stood aside and he walked in, his eyes resting for a moment on the unfinished cup of juice.
“Go ahead. Want more?” She pulled the pitcher from its shelf and filled the glass. There was never any point in trying to save it; juice always had to go day-of.
He thanked her and drank slowly. She didn’t offer him a seat, and he didn’t ask for one. Once he was done, he wiped his mouth with his sleeve and nodded as he returned the empty glass and thanked her again.
“What happened?” she asked.
“The caravan tipped over. Not sure why, exactly. I think animals, or perhaps Galhee with animals. But it fell into the Lens crater.”
Her eyebrows jumped at this. “All of it?”
“All of it. The entire caravan.”
“Oh wow. How do you know it was animals?”
“Tracks. Many tracks. But…”
“Yeah.” They both knew that it wouldn’t be easy to topple a caravan over, and that a disorganized group of creatures, no matter how intelligent, wouldn’t be capable of effecting such damage.
The Galhee were almost certainly behind this, she thought as he shifted his weight.
“Why would they do this? They hurt themselves as well, the next one just won’t come until we go—”
He interrupted her. “The supplies also. It all went down. It wasn’t a raid.”
“What?!” She placed her hands on her hips, then down again, then passed her thumb over the pistol in her holster, then ran her fingers through her hair. What?! She took a couple of steps back and turned in place. This had never happened before. “Why would they do that?!”
“That’s the thing. It makes no sense. I’m not sure if it was them, frankly. Ober and the others are up in arms and want to go on the warpath, but I’m calling for cooler heads to prevail. I don’t know if it was them. We’re all out of food now. They more than us. Which is something else we’ll have to deal with.”
“Right.”
“So two things. We need to get everybody to calm down and then have a conversation with the Galhee. But before that, we need food, quick. There’s nothing for the Caravan Dinner, and many people were counting on it.”
“Right, of course.” Then she thought about it for a moment. “Not all of them. A third.”
He sighed and said nothing. She opened the door and they both stepped outside.
It was quiet. She let him go first as she locked up, and both glanced around when they emerged from below. Nothing unusual was in sight.
Gabriel stepped toward the orchard and stood by the entrance. She signaled that he should turn around, made sure he had, opened the lock, and pulled the heavy gate open.
Within lay her two crops: tomatoes and lettuce. There was nothing unusual about the lettuce, and most homes grew their own, but there was also not much nutrition in it. Nobody could survive while eating it alone.
The tomatoes were her prize. This bit of land, not much bigger than her living/dining room, had somehow escaped the radiation and could grow any crop. Tomatoes had been popular Before, so she figured it made sense to grow them here. An older neighbor had told her that there had been some lead sheeting covering the ground here when the blasts came and that this had kept the soil healthy, and she’d just taken it at face value. ‘Why’ didn’t really matter.

[Author’s note: I’ve noticed that I’ve often created some sort of romantic or sexual tension between male and female characters, so I made a point of not doing so here. Also tried to avoid the usual post-Apocalyptic tropes of calling the other group the ‘Raiders’ or ‘Others’ or whatever. This could be a fun world to explore, and to make a point of trying to avoid those tropes while doing so.]
