30 Minutes Human # 00024
Downpour, Gas Station, Hot Dog, Dry Clothes
August 16, 2025

It was pouring. Like pouring, man. I’d never seen anything like it. Just like this curtain of water coming down from above, it was so thick. And I was like, man, we’re never gonna get through that, never! We’re gonna get soaked!
So then Amanda was like, “Yeah, this sucks man! We’re gonna get drenched! My shoes are gonna get ruined!”
And I was like, yeah man. I didn’t look at her shoes though, because you know, what do I know about shoes, and she seemed concerned, so it was like the nice thing to say, right?
So then we go to the attendant and we’re like “Bro! It’s raining so hard. We can’t leave now, you know.”
And he just looked at us like there was something wrong with us. Or like he was bored. One of the two, but like sometimes it’s both? And then he said like, “Alright,” or something like that.
So we were like, alright, cool, we can hang out in here, but what are we gonna do? This is like, biblical, man. Like torrential. Yeah. Torrents of water from the Heavens! And when I said that Amanda laughed. She’s a hoot, man.
So we started browsing the aisles, except that there were like, three aisles, or maybe just two, depends how you count them, I guess three. But they were like tiny and short so we browsed them in like five minutes. And it just rained harder! Even the bored guy at the counter, whom I’m gonna refer to as Able, because he reminds me of this guy, he stopped and looked outside, and I could read his face, and you could tell that he was thinking like, “Whoa man, this is wild, so wild.”
So then we went to the fridges on the side. We looked at all the drinks, and there was like Powerade, a ton of that, and no Gatorade! And I was like, yo, remember Gatorade? What happened with that?! And Amanda was like, “I know, right.” Anyway so there was also like chocolate milk, so we laughed about that a bit, because who pumps gas and gets chocmilk?
Then Amanda was like “Yo maybe I’ll buy a hot dog.” And I was totally cool with that, because some people don’t like gas station hot dogs, but I think they’re pretty good, right? Sprinkle a bit of mystery relish from the plastic bottle and you get a banger!! I was like sure, my treat, because I owed her for some Doritos from a couple of weeks back, so this would make us even.
So I was like yo, Able, and he gave me this look, and said like, “huh?”
Amanda snorted but I held my cool, and besides, I didn’t mean to do that. Like nobody wants to be called by the wrong name. I wasn’t making fun of him. Well, not really. Be chill, Able. Anyway I was like yo, sorry, can we get a hot dog?
“Sure,” he said. “Only a hot dog?”
And then I was like man, do I want something? I didn’t really, though, although I was starting to feel thirsty, probably because of seeing the stuff in that fridge, but then I looked outside at all the water outside and it was pouring man. I didn’t want to see any more water, so that took my thirst away and I was like nah man.
He picked the hot dog out of the machine and put it in a bun and was like, “Mayo and mustard right there”, so while Amanda put the condiments on her dog I paid for it. It was like three fiddy. That was fine. It was like expensive but it was fine.
So then I was like yooooo hot dog, and she was like “Yeah,” and I was like you don’t like relish? And she was like “Yeah but there isn’t any,” and took a bite. And I was like no waaaaaayyyy that sucks, so I was like, hey friend, you don’t have any relish?
And the guy Abel was like, “Only mustard and mayo, sorry.” And I thought that I shouldn’t have paid him all that money for this bogus hot dog.
So then while she ate we went back to the door and watched outside, and this was like tropical rain, like shit was gonna break in houses, like roofs, you know? And we didn’t talk for a bit and I thought about that scene in all the Jurassic Park movies where the dinosaurs come out of the rain, at least I think it’s in all of them, and I thought, wow, it would suck if dinos came out of the rain and ate us! But also be very cool.
So then Amanda finished after a couple of minutes, and she asked for the keys to the restroom, and then the horn sounded. And I was like oooohhh snaaaap we forgot Rufus!! But then I turned around and Amanda wasn’t there, because she was still washing her hands, so I walked over to the restroom and knocked and she was like, “Gimme a second,” and she sounded annoyed, so oops, maybe she wasn’t just washing her hands.
So eventually she came out while I just kinda stood there and Able pretended that I wasn’t there, and I told her about Rufus, and she was like “Oh crap, he’s gonna be so mad, I forgot about him.”
So I was like yeah, we should take him something, maybe an ice cream.
But Amanda didn’t know if anybody would want an ice cream right now, because it was wet and cold and it was also his car, so he wouldn’t want that stuff all over the seats and the steering wheel.
So then Amanda proposed that we take him a chocolate bar and some Vienna sausages, and I was like alright but who pays, and she obviously was like “Paper, scissors, rock!” Obviously right, so we went for it and boom, I lost, best of three and it was a blowout, she won the first two, so I went to Able and paid for the candy and the tin of cigarmeat.
And then we were like “Yoooo he’s probably angry because we’ve been here for like half an hour and we have to get to this place.”
And then Amanda was also like “Daffy, he’s also been driving all this time, so he’s probably tired. You’d be complaining so much worse if this had been you driving all this time.”
And I agreed with her, even though it annoyed me that she always took Rufus’ side on these things, like, he definitely didn’t need defending.
So then she said what I was thinking, which was, “Maybe we’ll have to go for it and get wet.” And I thought that sucked, because it was literally a billion million tons of water coming down, so much rain, and then I had an idea.
I went to Able and I said hey, my friend, and he looked at me like he knew that I was about to ask him for something, some people are like that, they have like a mental power. So then I was like dawg can we borrow a couple of plastic bags for our clothes so they don’t get wet?
So he looked at me and shrugged, like he didn’t mind, and it was totally reasonable to request that, right? He said like “Sure, here,” and he pulled a couple out from under the counter and gave them to me.
I took off my jeans and t-shirt and kinda folded them like my Mom would’ve done and then put them in the bag, and I thought about the shoes, and I was like yeah, I should put them in the bag as well, or in a bag, maybe not this one. But then I thought that I was about to go outside and would be running on the wet floor, and maybe there was like glass or nails, and naw man, I didn’t want a cut foot, but then I thought that I was gonna get soaked anyway, so I didn’t have to run, I could walk slowly and carefully, so I put my shoes off and socks and they went into the other bag.
Then I looked at Amanda, and she gave me this funny look, and I was like what, you’ve seen me in a bathing suit a bunch, this is the same. And she smiled and shrugged and looked outside again. So I told Able hey amigo, can I have a couple more for my friend’s clothes, and he started to say “No,” but then glanced at her and changed it to “Sure,” and got them out quickly, and I didn’t like that.
So I went to Amanda with the two bags and I was like you want to do the same?
And she looked at me and said, “No, Daffy. I’m not getting naked in a gas station store,” but she grinned, so I knew she was cool, but I was actually worried about her getting sick, so I said like at least your hoodie, you know? Maybe your shoes also?
So she looked outside and she was like, “Yeah, you’re right”, so she took her sneakers and socks off, and also her hoodie, and put them in the bag, and then she said kinda to herself, something like, “It’s a sports bra,” and took the t-shirt off, and I looked at Able and he looked disappointed and turned his attention to the cash register.
So I was like okay let’s go!! So we went for it, but before we stepped into the waterstorm I told her that we should take it easy, and go slowly, because we were gonna get soaked anyway so might as well be careful with our feet, right? And she saw that that was totally smart and nodded.
So then we went off, and it wasn’t that far, really, like twenty seconds, but wow I’ve never gotten so wet, I was water, like Bruce Lee in that video, Bruce Lee is awesome. I was water and not just water but cold water, and I was so glad that I’d taken everything off, because the bag was bunched up in my hand and it was all dry, so I’d be not cold and soaked all night. Amanda not quite the same but better than nothing.
When we got to the car we had to bang on the windows. Rufus was listening to music and facing somewhere else, so it took him a second to open the locks and let us in. We both piled into the back seat.

[Author’s notes: I’m not sure if this style makes for a crowd-pleasing read, but it sure flows easy when you’re writing. For some reason when I write like this the character is not quite the brightest, although I liked that Daffy showed that he wasn’t entirely a dumb brick several times throughout. I also tried this gimmick where I didn’t use quotation marks for his dialogue, but I everybody else’s, and jury’s still out on whether that’s interesting or not.]
