30 Minutes Human # 00028
Coughing, Illness, Unresponsive, Downstairs, Seizure
August 21, 2025

Six, seven, eight, nine times. Ten. The tenth one emerged with no energy, but it had successfully refused to be contained: a final cough to show you that you were absolutely not in control.
Your chest and throat hurt terribly. You wrapped the thick brown woolen blanket around yourself and tried to replicate a fetal position as best you could on that old rickety chair, then glanced up at the pitcher of hot water on the dresser before you. More vapors would help. You simply didn’t feel up to standing up and fetching it, though, so you called for Diana.
She didn’t arrive. The kitchen with its bangs, humming, clutter, and whistles were probably keeping her from hearing you properly, assuming that she wasn’t simply pretending that she couldn’t hear because she didn’t want to assist. She had to be tired as well. Physically not too much, since the woman was an ox with many great years ahead of her, but emotionally, mentally. You knew that she didn’t want to watch you fade away like this.
You wanted the vapors. You didn’t like to be ignored. So you called again. A bit louder.
She didn’t come this time either.
Now you were mad. You felt like a hair on the devil’s bunghole, and this woman was supposed to be taking care of you, but there was no sign of her. Angrily, you pulled the lamp from your bedside table and almost threw it at the wall before realizing that you might be left without light for a couple of evenings if you did that. You unscrewed the light bulb, unscrewed it carefully and placed it on your lap, and only then did you cast the thing against the half-open door to your room.
You waited. But she did not arrive. The cat walked by, poked its head in, looked at you, and left. But the cat could not pour hot water on the basin and get some vapors going. Besides, you were worried now. You felt foolish about the little tantrum you’d just thrown, even if there had been a strategic intention to generating the loud noise. But never mind the lamp; it was neither here nor there anymore. You wanted to know if everything was alright with Diana.
You nudged the basin toward the window with your foot, placing it out of the way. There was no need to spill water or to soak the tip of the blanket that kept you warm. Then you stood with the blanket and made for the door, only to give up after a couple of steps. This was also silly, walking around like a poorly wrapped caterpillar in a makeshift cocoon. The big woolen thing went on the bed, and you put on the thick zip-up sweater instead.
It felt good to walk, but you didn’t think about it much. Diana still hadn’t shown herself, and you knew you were making noise. This was unusual and concerning.
“Diana?!” you cried, concern in your exclamation palpable. No response, no steps in your direction. If something happened to her, that would be the end of you. Physically, of course, but also emotionally. She was your only real companion in this old house, and you didn’t want to be left alone. You’d never even considered the possibility that something might happen to her before you went, given how much younger and healthier she was.
The cat watched you exit the room, accusation on its eyes. ‘I’m also a companion, you ungrateful bastard,’ it seemed to say. You looked back at it, pointed indifference in your eyes, and started down the stairs.
“Diana? Are you alright?”
As you arrived at the landing you felt another coughing fit coming. You leaned against the banister in preparation, glancing at the step you’d just descended before concluding that sitting down for this would mean having to stand back up again afterwards. That might prove difficult. Your legs weren’t what they used to be.
The words ‘I should exercise more,’ crossed your mind. If your situation had at that moment not been so dire, you might’ve chuckled. As it was, you breathed deep and then coughed. And coughed again and again, five, six, seven, eight. A ninth tried to battle its way out, but you wouldn’t have it. You were in control this time. If Diana needed your help, you’d be leaving that damn weakness behind.
You were coughing much closer to the kitchen now, and she still hadn’t said anything. She would’ve heard that one and come running. ‘What are you doing out of bed, what’s wrong with you? Go back upstairs!! Come, let me help you!’ and she would’ve grabbed you by the arm, tenderly yet firmly, and helped you go up to that old seat that had become your prison. You thought, not for the first time, that you hated that chair.
You continued on your way down, reached the first floor, and realized that also for the first time, at least for the first time in a while, you’d made it downstairs on your own. This wasn’t a time for celebration, though. You arrived at the kitchen door and used your body to push it open.
“Diana?”
You saw her legs on the ground and knew terror for a moment before noting that they were moving. They were shaking, trembling, spasming. You approached and saw her curled up on the floor, her arms up to her face as a shield, her eyes open so wide they seemed about to burst from her sockets, her forehead marked with thin streaks of blood from where her nails had made cuts. Her mouth was agape, her jowls stretched by facial muscles giving all they could, and they were contorting her kindly, patient features into a frozen grimace of horror that stared through the kitchen island as if right behind it lay a decrepit minion of Lucifer crawling toward her with the single-minded vision of gnawing through her throat, and she couldn’t move, she was frozen, paralyzed.
“Diana. Christ, Diana, what is it?!”
You stepped around and thought about crouching down before realizing the enormous risk of such a maneuver. Your knees would in no way take a crouch, you might never walk or even stand again. You wished for a moment that you’d listened to all her berating about pants, wished that you were wearing some right now instead of shorts, and then leaned on the tall cabinet to slowly descend to the floor. You crawled to her side.
“Diana. Diana.” You grabbed her shoulder and shook, but her strong muscles were taught with tension, and you were barely able to move her. “Diana.” You prodded her side, then slapped at it. Nothing. You went to her face. First gently, then out of both fear and necessity, both harder and rougher. You pinched her cheeks and almost even poked her eyes, but decided against that. It might hurt her.
Neither her position nor expression changed. She continued to lie there, shaking, terrified, awe-struck despair in her eyes.
Water, then. You didn’t know how you’d get back up and activate the faucet, but then you had a better idea: the cat’s bowl. You hoped beyond hope that it would have water in it as you turned to search for it, and it did. She’d likely filled it in the last hour. You grabbed the bowl, slowly lifted it up and over, and poured the water on her face.

[Author’s notes: I started this one with coughing because I was coughing. Take that, those who claim that I cannot write autobiographically (I don’t know if anybody claims as much, but just in case). I didn’t know what the protagonist would find upon entering the kitchen to look for Diana; it was a last-minute decision. This one turned out bleaker than I expected at the start, and it wasn’t an uplifting scenario to begin with.]
