30 Minutes Human # 15
Sexual Tension, Boardroom, Anecdote, Hotel, Surströmming
August 4, 2025

“What’s the shittiest thing you’ve ever done?”
He looks at me, smiles, lingers, then looks back out the window. “There was this one time at a hotel. I’d just flown in from Malmö and had brought a few jars of surströmming with me. You know what it is? Not even sure why I bought that.”
“The fish paste that smells like a bad reef?”
“Even worse. This stuff is awful. Fucking terrible, you open a corner of a tin of it and then you gotta vacate the premises for the rest of the day. Again, not sure why I bought it, and especially so much of it.”
“Alright.” A taxi on the street below almost hits what seems to be an old lady with a shopping cart, and much yelling and fish-shaking ensues.
“The Delta people probably dropped my luggage a couple of times. Or maybe it was at one of the airports, who knows. Whatever the case, once I get into the cab to the hotel in Chicago you can tell something’s off. There’s a fucking heavy smell. It’s everywhere in the cab. But the cab driver can’t tell, because he has that see-through partition up. Luckily, right?
“So we go in this cab for like thirty, forty minutes. I have both windows open and I’m about to pass out. The stench is awful. When he eventually pulls up at the hotel, I tell him not to worry about it, that the porter will get the bags. I don’t want him to charge me a cleaning fee for the cab. Fuck that.”
I laugh and look into his eyes. “That’s terrible, John.”
“No, that’s not the end of it. See, the porter gets the bags out—they were damn heavy, too—and you can see the shock on his face when he registers the smell. This guy was like 60. You can tell he’s seen some shit. But his face looked like he was trying to keep himself from crying while he carried the bags to the cart and wheeled it in. I didn’t see that guy again.”
“So then it’s in the hotel.”
“Yeah. In the hotel.” He stands straight for a moment, stretches his shoulder blades back, lets a satisfied sigh out, and leans back on the railing. He’s much too handsome for his own good, and he knows it.
“So the bags stay by the entrance while I go to the front desk to check in. I’m worried that the smell has rubbed off on me, but no such thing seems to be the case. I remember that the girl at the counter was this slim blonde thing that was all smiles. She probably looked like you a few years ago.”
It’s tough to tell if that’s a thinly veiled crack at my age or a compliment, but knowing John, it was probably both. I just continue smiling at him and say nothing. He breaks eye contact after a moment.
“When they tell me that my bags will be right up I realize I have to get there first. I’d intended to shower and change and go out, but that’s not in the cards anymore. As far as I’m concerned, everything in that bag is a biohazard. Hell no.” I laugh because of the way he says it. He enjoys the word, and obviously doesn’t get to use it at work much.
He pauses for a moment and then continues.
“So I grab my laptop case and head upstairs. In the elevator I sniff the case, and sure enough, it smells like fish. Like an entire age of rotten fish. I’ll have to discard this as well. It’s likely that I only end up keeping my laptop and my passport at this point.”
Something about the ‘age of rotten fish’ makes me realize that I’ll probably end up fucking him before the week is over. Was bound to happen. Might as well, while he has a fresh haircut.
“So I take the laptop, my passport, and the charging cable out, and stick the passport and the cable in my pocket. I’m praying that my suit hasn’t been hit as well, but I may burn it anyway, just to be sure.” This makes me giggle. Get a hold of yourself, Diana.
“The bellboy shows up after a few minutes, and he looks terrible. Like he’s aged a decade since he came into contact with my belongings. I nod and let him in, and the force of the smell nearly knocks me off my feet. But I somehow just act like nothing’s wrong.”
I remember to look back downwards. Good distraction. The taxi’s gone. Traffic’s flowing. A man walks down the street eating what may be a burrito or an ice-cream cone; it’s tough to tell from up here.
“The buy puts the bag on the luggage stand and, poker-faced, asks ‘will there be anything else, sir?’ And I look at this poor bastard, desperately in need of fresh air, probably regretting the day he got a job in hospitality, and I tell him, ‘Yes, would you mind unpacking my luggage? Thank you.’
“Oh my God, John. Did you tip him?”
“I remember asking him to be sure to hang up my ties and then giving him a five-dollar bill. Then I left. I think that’s how it went, at least. The smell had by that point nullified most of my cerebral function.” He mimics explosions by the sides of his head, and I think tonight will work just fine.
“So you weren’t there when the bag was opened. Was he alright afterwards? How’d the room smell?”
“I have no idea. I never went back to the hotel. Been four years, never went back.”
I laugh out loud at this. The story was fucking funny even without him being the one who told it. Nobody’s ever gotten into my pants with a funny story about dead fish during board meeting recess before, and he technically still hasn’t, but the deal is pretty much done by this point. Both deals, I think with a glance at Gabriel, who’s returned to the head of the table and is getting ready to resume.
“So did they ever get in touch with you?”
In the light from the window, his eye color might best be described as ‘dark arctic ice’.
“I got a couple of calls from them, but just put them on hold. Eventually the hotel sent me an extra bill for about ten grand, in addition to charging me for the full three-night stay. I think it was cheap,;they probably had to call in an exorcist.”
“What hotel was that? I need to make a note of places never to visit.”
“The Garrison, on the north end of The Loop. It looked very nice, frankly. I think I booked there because their breakfast chef was supposed to be stellar.”
“Omelette du poisson?” I venture.
His laugh is visibly fake, but we’re past that mattering by this point. What’s nice about what’s coming is that neither of us really cares much about the other. Whomever said that fun and work should never mix was completely off their mark.
“John, Dee, will you join us? We’re going to get started again.” Everybody else is at their seat, and Jen is using only her eyes to give me a knowing smile. What a poker face on that one.

[Author’s note: Before I sat down I briefly envisioned the scene: a board room break in which one character asks the other about the shittiest thing they’ve ever done. I thought it might go from that to some devious and underhanded corporate decision-making, but instead what we got was two high-powered grown-ups hooking up in a full meeting room without even touching each other. That’s the luck of the random flow for ya. I’d like to try surströmming sometime.]
