30 Minutes Human # 13
House, Terror, Trapped, Hungry
August 1, 2025

Carlotta raced down the hallway. She no longer saw the mold, nor the tendrils creeping out of the dark corners, nor the curiously shaped carvings on the wooden paneling that, earlier, had so reminded her of the Poltergeist movie that terrified her as a child. She no longer heard the inconstantly loud ticking, the whispers that were sometimes wind and sometimes words, or the distant howling. She just knew that she had to get to the far room immediately.
Something scurried underfoot and, though she half-detected it in time, she nonetheless stumbled and fell on her hands. The floor was grimy and had oily spots, and something scraped the webbing between her thumb and index finger. She gave little thought to it. But as she wiped it off on her once-treasured white blouse, she did hear the howling and this time, distantly, did think about it; she found it clichéd.
The banister at the top of the stairs invited her to lean while taking the left turn to the final section of the hallway, but she knew better by now. Joan’s body below was a stark reminder of what not to forget. She briefly thought of the horror of that moment, but didn’t even consider how recently the whole thing had all begun. It didn’t really matter. She just needed to get to Bib.
The door, of course, was closed. She tried the doorknob once, twice, thrice, each time harder, and it didn’t give. Then she tried pushing, shoving, half-tackling it, and nothing came of it save for a splinter in her right elbow. She slapped the door and screamed in frustration, and in clear response, the doorknob fell to the floor.
It was an old brass thing with three grooves evenly spaced around the neck. She poked her finger in the back of it for no good reason and found nothing within. Just a doorknob in a house. Nothing more. Nevermore.
“Bib?!” she yelled. Silence. “BIB?!?” She slapped the door high and hard.
Still no response. She knew that the house might be playing tricks on her, but she couldn’t take the chance. Eric had held, held his own child before falling through the cellar hole. The child had responded. He’d known it was his kid.
Or was it?
She leaned against the wall and let herself slide down. For once, the grime that coated everything was useful. Was Bib anywhere near here? Was this another trick?
She hadn’t eaten in at least two days, and her last sip of something to drink had been four or five hours earlier. She’d been running and jumping and terrified and pushing and crying and screaming and climbing and she needed sustenance. The house was playing tricks on her, and her own mind now seemed to be following suit.
Food. Joan’s cereal bars. The thought flashed in, fully formed, out of the blue, and all but entirely displaced the vision of Bib. Joan had fallen early, and they’d been too distracted to think much about her body since, but she realized that the bars were probably still in her pockets. How many had she packed? Two, three, four?
She got up and made her way to the banister, then pushed. It gave way and fell on Joan below, though she wouldn’t mind. She would’ve found it funny, in fact. With her morbid sense of humor. Carlotta missed her for the first time. If she ever got out of this place alive, there would be no more Joan. Or any of them, for that matter. Save for Antony, perhaps, but who knew how he’d fared since yesterday. Maybe he’d gotten out. Maybe he was lying broken in a ditch somewhere. Maybe he was still stuck inside, like her.
She stepped down, nudged the debris off her friend’s corpse, and looked at her. I’ll miss you, Joanie. She didn’t like the way she was staring upwards, so she gently closed her eyelids. Then she tried her pockets.
Her right pocket held car keys, house keys, and the two corresponding keychains that took up way too much space. Carlota remembered that Joan had recently switched a Swiss Army knife keychain out for this big rubbery rabbit thing, and wished that hadn’t happened. She sure could use a proper knife right now.
The left pocket she struck gold in. Two Wattley cereal bars, sealed, granola cranberry, granola raspberry. And a pen, a good pen. She was about to lay the three of them on the step when she realized the house might somehow steal them, so she slipped them in her own pockets instead.
There were two other granola bars in the back pockets, one of them half-eaten (when? Joan was always snacking on something), and her credit card slip. Carlotta took it, not for its financial benefits, but for a trick she remembered an older cousin teaching her when she was young: how to open a door with a card. She’d thought it neat back then, and thought it even neater today. But first, food.
She sat on the floor, her back on the wall facing the stairs, and ate one and a half granola bars while watching her friend’s remains. She ate slowly, nibbled slowly, enjoyed it, let it slide into her stomach a bit at a time, as she’d read starving people should do. She allowed her mind to go blank while she did so, and as she ate, she barely shifted her position. Joan didn’t move at all.
The door upstairs, the far room. She didn’t want to go in there; it was almost certainly a trap. Bib wasn’t there. But now that she had these credit cards, perhaps she could go back to the kitchen and try some of the cabinets or trapdoors there. She might find something useful. Maybe a key. Something to help her get out of this place.
A figure appeared to her right. She first caught it out of the corner of her eye, a darkness moving toward her, sometimes in the shape of someone standing, sometimes in the shape of shadow enveloping the end of that hallway and approaching, sometimes in the shape of a giant, mad spider with a permanent grin on its white face crawling with its hairy legs covering the entire space. She didn’t move, save to eat the last bit of the second granola bar. She knew better than to look by now.
“What?” she asked. “Just go.” When the figure didn’t move she angrily threw her elbow back into the wall behind her, and to her great surprise, it gave. The entire section of wall gave, and she half-fell backwards into it.

[Author’s note: I ran out of time right when it got interesting. What was in that new room? We may never know. This seems to belong toward the end of a longer story. I don’t care for what I did with the set of characters so stereotypically placed in this situation (Eric, Carlotta, Joan, Antony), but I liked the house and how Carlotta has adjusted to the horror she’s in and gone into survival mode. Good character. Could be fun to further explore her.]
