30 Minutes Human # 14
Hostage, Stalker, Room, Escape
August 2, 2025

“There aren’t enough stars in the sky to properly reflect the number of times I’ve thought of you,” he said.
She dug herself into the corner, feet outwards, ready to kick his teeth in if he got any closer.
“And now I have you all to myself. Here. This is a life’s obsession culminated in glory.”
He wasn’t so big. And definitely out of shape. Sure, he was strong, but how far would that go if pushed? She could tire him out.
“Alright, that sounded creepy. Sorry. ‘Obsession’ gives the wrong idea. I just think about you a lot, a lot, and I’m really happy that you’re here.”
No, that was delusional. He was actually big, and when he’d grabbed her his hands were like sailor’s knots. Fortunately, he hadn’t tried to force himself upon her yet. And now he wouldn’t. She wouldn’t let him. She was still terrified, but past the point of paralysis. And she could kick hard.
“Anyhow, look. I would’ve preferred not to bring you here like this, but I sent you letters and gifts and you always ignored me, and when I tried to say hello to you you just walked by. I don’t think you ever really saw me. And that’s okay. There’s a lot to see in the world. But now I have your attention.”
She wondered how fast he could be if he wanted to. Didn’t matter. She’d fight to the death. She glared at him from under messy hair, but in response all she got was a tender look.
“Alright, I’ll leave you alone now. I’ll be back in a little bit and we can chat more. You’ll see that I’m a good guy. If you need anything, just tug on this.” He stood and walked to the door, where a brown string was fixed parallel to the frame. When he pulled it, a bell rang somewhere nearby.
“Anything for now?” he asked.
She demanded that he release her at once and added a few choice words to make her thoughts on him clear.
He sighed theatrically and responded, “Alright. See you in a bit.” Then he closed the door and latched it.
She sprung up from the bed and then realized that he might walk back in immediately, so she swiveled to face the door. That didn’t happen, though, and she heard receding footsteps. Alright, so he was actually leaving. She grabbed the chair and stuck it against the door, lodged up against the handle like they did on TV.
Then she examined the food he’d brought. She was starving, but wasn’t stupid enough to simply eat what he’d cooked up for her; she was pretty sure that she’d wake up in a bad, irreversible state after that meal. But in addition to the soup and beef medallions there was a pack of chips and two juice boxes, and those might not’ve been tampered with. She examined the juice boxes closely, squeezing them here and there to test for needle holes, but they seemed to be fine. Then she did the same for the chips, and for once was grateful for the amount of air these things packed. None of it escaped. The packaged food hadn’t been tampered with.
She sat on the bed, devoured the chips, and went through one of the juice boxes in a single gulp. The other one she saved under the pillow. Then she realized that it might complicate her plight if he realized that she wasn’t eating his cooking but only the stuff in packages, so she cut the meat into smaller pieces and flushed that and the soup in the bowl down the toilet. This would also keep her from making a regrettable decision later, when hungrier.
Now what? She had to get out. One option was the door, but it wasn’t great. He knew the house, knew how it was mapped. That was his territory. So she’d have to get out through walls, floor, ceiling, or window.
Window. He’d proudly shown her the bricks covering it earlier, but construction on that wall seemed weak. Her weekends spent helping her dad and brother were suddenly memories double-gold-plated: not just because it gave her something to want to return to, but because she realized that she knew a lot about how houses like this one were constructed.
“Huyen? Would you like to read a book?” She heard his footsteps approaching and flew back to the bed. “Here are a couple I thought you’d like.”
Two paperback books and a hardcover appeared in the hollow she’d earlier noticed under the door. They slid in one after the other, like train wagons. She said nothing.
“If there’s something else you’d like to read, just let me know. I have tons of books. Science fiction, history, biographies, even a couple of business books. Just, a lot of stuff. We’ll discuss books one day, I know how much you love to read. Let me know!”
She heard her walk away again and returned to the window. It seemed to be a single layer of bricks, and they were cemented competently enough. But she could get a couple of glimpses of the outside through pinholes.
She thought about trying to tear it down, but he’d probably hear her and come running. There was no way she could remove enough bricks in time for him not to be quickly drawn by the ruckus, and then she’d be in an even more difficult position. As it was, she figured she had at least a couple of hours, while he ‘let her stew’.
She checked under the bed. There wasn’t anything of note down there: more rug, lower wall, the baseboard. The rest of the room was barren, with nothing other than the chair, the bed, the food tray, and now the books.
The former closet entrance looked impenetrable. That was interesting and made her wonder what lay behind, but significant work had been put into boarding it up, and she’d not be able to get through it easily. She briefly wondered why he hadn’t used bricks there as well.
Finally, there was the restroom. She tried the faucet and it worked;  the toilet’s flushing mechanism had already been proven. And the shower… well, she’d never use that. She shuddered just thinking about it, and snapped the curtains back closed.
So now what? It made sense that he’d expect her to at least snoop around, so she could at least make some predictable noise and learn through it. She knocked on a few different spots on each wall, and they all responded similarly, including the external-facing one. The floor felt normal enough, and she didn’t bother with the ceiling.
She sat down for five minutes and thought. Her brother had always told her that, if you’re about to do something brave, stupid, reckless, or unrepeatable, you should sit down for a moment and chew on it properly before pulling the trigger.
So she did. While polishing off the other juice box and chewing on the plastic straw.
Then she stood up. She slid the mattress off the bed, tipped the latter on its side, and stuck it against the door by the chair. Nobody would get through that. Then she walked into the bathroom and leaned so much weight on the sink that it broke off the wall and fell to the ground.

[Author’s notes: Soon after I started this one I realized that this made two consecutive pieces featuring women trapped in houses in dangerous situations. It wasn’t planned that way, and indeed, the very first line initially materialized as a romantic one. But then the story took this turn. I like that both Huyen and yesterday’s Carlotta had agency and a no-bullshit attitude about their situation. They’d probably get along. I’d also been meaning to write something where only one of the characters had dialogue, though this wasn’t quite what I had in mind, because it makes sense for her to be sparing with words, so it wasn’t really forced as an exercise. I’ll try that another time. Also, I don’t know what she’s gonna do with that sink or if she’s going to be successful, but whatever it is, it’ll be badass.]
