30 Minutes Human # 00032
Widdles, Waddles, Red Rollops, Delirium, Mating Ritual
August 27, 2025

“Do you think green rollops taste well?” she asked the crowd.
“Noooooooooo,” they all said together.
Then one of the waddles on the side yelled out, “they smell terrible.” And all of them giggled in chorus. It sounded like a trickle of marbles flowing over tile steps.
“So what are we going to do about it? Are we going to keep accepting green rollops?” asked the widdle with the pyramid hat and the blue tubular outfit.
“Noooooooooooo!!” they were getting excited now. They knew where this was going. The waddle on the side held his wisecrack this time.
“Are we going to ask for, I don’t know, purple rollops?!” she yelled excitedly.
“Noooooooooo!!!!!” the crowd yelled feverishly, eager with anticipation for what was to come.
“What about beige rollops? Are we going to accept even the possibility of beige rollops?!?”
“Nooooooooooooooooooo!!!!!!!” They knew it was coming, and the warbles at the front had their mandibles going at full speed, their eyes wide and excited with the promise of a blasimf.
“Then… what about RED ROLLOPS!!!????!?!?” the widdle took a step back as she eagerly dropped this final irreversible question, as she yelled into the seas of waddles the line that would firestart the madness.
“YESSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS” they yelled, they screamed, they wailed, and off went the waddles, as a mad unforgiving sea of destruction and chaos and dumb momentum, and they exploded in all directions, pulverizing everything before them but the stage, which they crawled over but otherwise left intact.
All waddles in their way joined them, perhaps out of fear, perhaps out of fevered enchantment, perhaps out of prudent peer pressure. And the few widdles they came across, save for the spark-launcher, simply cowered with all their legs and arms wrapped around each other, and the insane tide of waddle went around them in a tight but safe circle.
The trees were razed. They didn’t even have a chance to feel the ground and rest with dignity, but simply lost their integrity as and where they stood. There were so many of the red waddles that no matter how large the expanding circle got, there were no cracks for anything to fall through. Within that circle, which might’ve been a sphere but for the structure of the environment, the only thing that existed were waddles and the few terrified yellow widdles.
There were curiously no nymphs. None of the widdles had any with them, none of the widdles had recently lain, and none of the widdles were carrying. It was only adults in the exploding circle.
The first to find a red rollop was a waddle that had traveled east, toward the Great Water. He found it right behind a fresh tree stump, a few feet away from a lightstand. The waddle didn’t think twice but immediately consumed the red rollop and was in turn consumed by it. He grew in size and changed in shape and was suddenly a great whirring ball of irrationality, and ping-ponged this way and that, fatally injuring the other “innocent” waddles about him, until one unfortunate bounce took him to metal. The metal made him fly, and flight took him to the water. He was there diluted, and his Sense returned to Woddle.
There was, curiously, only one rollop there. However, the next finding of a red rollop was not of a single one, but of dozens. The destruction that this discovery resulted in was felt almost to the center of the circle, where the Inciting Widdle awaited. It didn’t reach that far, however. The Inciting Widdle had to further wait.
As it turned out, the red rollop(s) that finally Triggered was well within the circle when it was discovered. That waddle was slow and lazy, and although red rollop fever had also caught him, he simply couldn’t be bothered to be as fast as the others. So he took his time, spreading outward with the rest and in no rush to get anywhere, and discovered two red rollops sitting side by side under a fallen waddle, likely hoping not to be discovered.
He did what he knew he shouldn’t do. The waddle may have been fat and slow, but the sight of two undiscovered red rollops drove him to insanity faster than one might say “Beauregard.” He stuffed them in his big mouth simultaneously and his eyes rolled out of the top of his head, none of the five senses working any longer, the cataclysmic overload of energy and desire all but deleting the waddle that had, until a moment earlier, been.
The waddle’s slow speed and casual gait had allowed him to keep a clear idea of where the stage was, so his angle of return was true.
Awaiting a fast, healthy, well-formed waddle, the Inciting Widdle was momentarily disappointed to see this chunky, crusty specimen making a demolition-laced beeline toward her. Moments later she stopped caring however, because he was in her, and as his twin members broke her lower shell and intertwined within, all she knew was a combination of pain, peace, and bliss before her consciousness was forever wiped and she became a nest for the enormous egg that had been lain within her. The calming pheromones she released went to those waddles that remained nearby, and from those to others a bit further out, and so forth until reaching the distant edge of the circle.
The blasimf was over. The Inciting Widdle had been Poached. Some fortunate waddle had Triggered and was now but a pool of sticky yellow mess before the carcass-cum-nest of the Inciting Widdle they had all so madly desired for a moment, desired even more than the red rollop.
And at the heart of all of this there was an egg. A big, brown, pointy, slightly sticky, somewhat freckly egg that sat between the remains of its parents.
“Did you see the winner?” asked a waddle close to the front to his neighbor.
“Yes, briefly. Not a specimen to be proud of. But I’d never seen anyone bowl like that before. There was no stopping that one. A collision would’ve proved quite terrible, so we’re fortunate that only one made it back.”
The other waddle twitched his cheek in agreement. Fair enough. Now they all had to sit and wait, or for the waddles that were brave enough, stand and wait.
The chanting began at the front and was quickly echoed at the back, at the outer edges, all before eventually being produced by every waddle at every point in the circle. None of the waddles was particularly engaged by it, or at least not yet, but the sheer number of waddles guaranteed that the sound would carry and be longevous.

[Author’s notes: Wrote this one late at night, like at 11pm. Felt sleepy at a certain point, but went through with it. The vibes feel like something out of the early 1990s.]
