30 Minutes Human # 00017
Fever Dream
August 6, 2025

I knew I was in for it. I’d not had a proper fever like this for a couple of years, not since I was in Middle School, but I knew what was coming that night. Though it took me a while to fall asleep, the show didn’t disappoint once it eventually arrived.
I didn’t even really want to sleep. Nothing had really hurt until I’d lain down, and then everything hurt. Legs, torso, arms, even my head a bit. Like I’d been tensing my entire body all day and now that I went into fetal position all my muscles were getting back with a vengeance. I felt hot, particularly in the face, and when I felt my neck it felt like it was burning. My mom had given me something to help me feel better, but I didn’t exactly trust her medical judgement, and the fact that the box said “Voronex Sinuses” didn’t exactly give me confidence. But I took the pill, had a full glass of water along with it, and went to my room.
I just laid there. My eyes felt like they were burning. Somewhere in the back of my mind I wondered if I was going to die, if this was a fever that might otherwise be a non-issue but in this household, with no healthcare and a mother who (as I’d come to realize) cared little and knew even less, it might be the death of me.
I thought of who’d miss me. I went through a couple of people, mostly people at school, a couple of folks from the neighborhood, my Aunt Pamela, and through this I realized that a lot of people might miss me. That felt good. That would make me feel better.
Then I felt myself floating. First above the bed, then picking up speed laterally, then whooooooooooooooooooooohoooooooooooo, off I went. I didn’t see or hear anything, of course, but my inner ear seemed to be way off. What a ride. It became uncomfortable after a little while, but I didn’t want to move. I just wanted to lay there, to not even open my eyes. I eventually had to snap out of it, of course, and when I shifted my weight the ride through 5D space ended.
I shifted into that dubious layer that lies between sleep and wakefulness. It’s where the mind is normally glitchy—in class when you’re falling asleep despite yourself, or in a car, or wherever, and you’re still awake and processing input but you suddenly have this entire world situation you’re in and you’re familiar with it and it’s so intense and you have to make a decision about whether the cattle will all be slain and if they’re slain it’ll be bloody but the big man with the bushy beard and the old pointy brown felt hat says that YOU HAVE TO MAKE A DECISION and then you open your eyes and you’re still at home and you should probably go to bed instead of watching your mom enjoy reruns of Wheel of Fortune. Sure, mom. The toaster’s always a good bet, and it’s a lifelong investment.
If that interstitial space was normally glitchy, tonight it was a view of hell I’d not had in a long time. Everything was blue and dark blue, and Shrika was telling me about her ice creams and she was strategically covered in ice cream balls and she was swaying her hips and the ice cream was starting to drip and what the hell? I don’t even like Shrika. Do I?
The scene changed, though I was still in the blue space, and her last words echoed in my mind: “needle and point, needle and point! Jonas!! JONAS!! Needle and point!” And so on repeatedly, maddeningly, while I tried to remove a portion of dark blue wall that wouldn’t allow itself to be removed, and why would it? It was just a part of the wall, rounded, as if eroded by water or wind, and I’d chosen this spot, where I didn’t even have somewhere to anchor the heel of my hand, so of course the sea of ants had caught up with me and was now swarming, swarming, and I feared that they would climb up my feet and ankles and then I’d be awash in ants and I heard Shrika chanting “needleneedleneedleneedleneedle” and the ants were fortunately not climbing up. I was atop a cliff with them, save that there were no ants, and then the farmers came from behind and were going to shove me.
I moved my arm, which was falling asleep under me, and this pulled me out of that place. Whoa, that had been intense. I was thirsty but didn’t feel like moving. So I allowed myself to fall back in, wondering why I remembered Shrika dancing with an ice cream ball covering each breast and a couple more placed over her privates. There may have been more ice cream balls. Shrika didn’t return to me that night, but I did avoid her the week and a half that followed.
Then I was on a mountain, a great green mountain overlooking a sea that I knew was off the Scottish Coast. I knew many things. That I was ancient (Highlander much?) and that I was the mightiest Accountant of the land (not Highlander) and that all the accounting in the castle was my responsibility, my domain, and my mastery, but that it couldn’t happen right now because they were coming on the ships. And as I stood there I saw the ships materialize on the horizon and then approach so fast, so quickly, and the ones in the front leapt into the air and flew toward me and they were chamaleons now, chamaleons with great big buggy eyes, and their skin turned from brown to green and then they started losing their shapes and their eyes were coming out of their heads and they were screaming horror, and I was terrified.
This eventually woke me up. Holy hell, what the %#&% had that been? I sat and had a sip of water. It was 1:44AM. My pajama top was drenched in sweat, and when I tapped the bed where I’d been laying, I was unsurprised to find that it was also soaked. Great. Before addressing that, I needed more water. I finished the cup, stood up, threw the wet shirt in the corner, and put on the one I’d been wearing earlier. Fortunately I’d been laying near the edge of the bed, so most of it remained dry. Instead of laying back down I went downstairs to the living room. Clear my mind, a bit of fresh air.
I stood by the window looking out into the street. Dark and unfriendly, always. That’s where Peppo and them were starting to hang out more, showing up to parties with girls I’d never seen, putting on their show. I wondered if that’s how it began, and then I knew it did. The straight-and-narrow path, Mr. Huyo always called it. One to seek. The other to avoid.
I knew I had to go back to sleep, but I was feeling a bit better and hadn’t had much in the way of dinner, so I went to the fridge and helped myself to a slice of baloney. As I slurped it down I considered that the cold air probably wasn’t doing me any favors, so I pulled another slice out and closed the fridge. Then I returned upstairs.
I thought of Shrika again. I thought of Peppo, and of Johnson, and of all these people that I knew. I felt like more of a grown-up at that moment, just contemplating everything and everyone and wondering about the future. As I let my muscles relax, I felt that pain again. Less so, but man, I was beaten up.
I wondered if I could will myself into a dream of flight, a lucid dream, so I closed my eyes and tried to picture myself flying, controlling my position, my speed, everything. That’s not what I got, of course. I became a white block instead.
I was a grey-white block floating through a grey-white world where everything was grey-white, but I was just becoming greyer, and so was the world, so I turned around to face upwards and knew that I was in a Great Cone and I had to get out. I had to get out! So I started swimming upwards, for I was in my body again, and there was no water but I could swim, up towards the top of the cone, and the lack of gravity in the cone made it easy for me to flail about, but I had to get to the tip and escape that way. I had to. There was no going back to what sat beneath my feet. I wasn’t sure if this was because it was bad or because it was over, but I had to go up, not down.
I touched the side of the cone and brought myself close to it and then stuck my feet and hands to the inverted surface and started climbing, but I Knew that it was far. So far, too far. I was minuscule, less than a bug to a bug on this surface. I heard somebody saying “eeeeeeeeeeeeh”, and I looked to the side, but it was only white until the light ended and then it was just black.
I leaned my forehead on the white surface to get my bearings and figure out what to do.


[Author’s notes: I used to have pretty wild fever dreams when I was a kid. That layer between being asleep and being awake, hoo boy. You never know what you’re gonna find in there, but it’s where I’ve crafted entire worlds in seconds and found myself in intense situations within those worlds, then to have it all vanish within a minute. That place is intense, man. That’s what you get for having a big heavy lunch half an hour before a boring class.]
