30 Minutes Human # 00018
Merchants, Mistress, Eliminate, Salesman
August 8, 2025

“Lollipops for twelve cents a dozen, yessir, yessir.”
“Come get your straws, don’t sip like a fool, look fancy schmancy nice!”
“Need a snail? A nice wooden snail? Snails for fifteen cents, they’ll last you a lifetime, always a companion!”
“Your mistress asks too much? Do her away! With a glint and a smoulder, she’ll vanish, hooray!”
That one caught my attention. Do your mistress away? I looked around but saw nothing suggestive and didn’t catch the line repeated. But when I faced forward to continue on my way, I heard it again: “That dame you please, she please you back, she wants more now, the horrid hack.”
This time I stopped and looked more carefully. Nothing caught my eye this time either, but now I knew that it hadn’t been my imagination. When after several seconds I failed to detect it once more, I advanced again—and heard the slightly high-pitched, elegant-accented sing-song voice say, “Your gal was fine, earned fur and purse, but now she’s greedy, quite a curse.”
It felt like it was targeted at me. The man spoke when I walked, hid when I sought him out. He was here somewhere, watching me.
I looked up and down the tight cobblestone street. The usual merchants—as well as several itinerant ones—were there, each displaying their wares before them. Birds, fruit, doohickeys, and sweets were on display, as were small bits of jewelry, monkeys, carven wooden cups, and walking canes. The garb on the merchants was no less noteworthy, for they were as always draped in colorful, geometrically laden fabrics that hung loose from them or hugged them tight, some yellow and red, some green and yellow, one in multiple shades of blue, and all with headwear big or small or tall or old.
None of them was looking at me, and each was yelling about the product very evidently in front of them.
To test my hypothesis once more I faced forward and took a couple of decided steps.
“You wanted adventure and there she was, now time for parting, kill the lass.”
Increasingly on point each time. I looked at the shops hanging over the street, every one in a similar construction of angled stone and timber, their decorations as colorful as the characters that stood at their doorstep. There was nothing evident in any of the windows, either: mannequins, I saw rolls of fabric, a parrot in a cage, and a bored buxom lady watching the crowd below.
I had a thought and began to walk again, but this time in the opposite direction, heading back whence I had come. After a few steps I heard him again. Businesslike, this time, like he knew he had me:
“The third doorway down the Greenbelt alley. Let’s converse, friend.”
The Greenbelt was a modest café that had been there since well before I was born, a staple of the town whose owner possibly owned the entire alley. I don’t think it did much business, but I doubt anyone cared.
The man was wearing a pinstriped grey-blue suit with a dotted grey-black shirt and a tie that couldn’t decide itself between red and purple. He was wearing a bowler hat, or at least I initially thought he was. When I glanced at him again, it was just his well-effected combover. His spectacles never shifted.
“Hello, friend. You seek to do business?”
I considered wringing his neck then and there. Shoving him against the wall. Ending him, somehow. He knew things nobody should about me, and I didn’t like to be taken advantage of.
“Easy there, friend. All I seek is a mutually beneficial transaction.”
“What do you know of me?” I asked.
“I know that you’re in desperate need of what I sell.”
“What do you sell?”
“How long has she been under your skin like this? Six months? Maybe eight? Do you really believe you can keep it from your wife much longer?”
I lunged at him, but he lightly stepped aside, too lightly, like he’d not been quite at that spot, and was now leaning against the opposite frame of the door.
“None of that, my friend. Again: all I seek is your business.”
I thought about making a move for him again but held back. Something told me it would be a useless gesture. I glanced inside.
“Come in. It’s empty at present, unused. There is a table.” I followed his indication.
I’d been in here before. Several businesses had attempted to make the spot work and failed; it was too far into the alley to be properly visible. I remembered a fish shop, a tailor that my mother visited a couple of times, and a buttonmaker. There had been others.
I sat at the table he’d referred to. It was dark and dirty, just like the rest of the store, and I’d have to properly wipe my trousers and sleeves after leaving. But I wanted to know what he had to say. Because I did indeed have a problem.
I’d had enough of Agnes. I’d had enough of her threats, her innuendo, her tantrums, her violence and submissiveness. And now I thought I’d seen her twice when out with Melida, and that wouldn’t do. I’d not have her destroy my family.
The problem, of course, was that I couldn’t resist her. Not only was she becoming genuinely threatening and problematic, but the affair had never ended. My visits to her house, or to some distant or nearby spot for a rendezvous, always ended the same way. She was my destruction, and I couldn’t bring myself to harm her or even threaten her.
But. This man. He had spoken to me. He knew.
“She’s a little imp, that devil. She has you—”
“Quiet,” I told him. “I don’t care what you know. Fine. Tell me what you sell. And tell me what it costs.”
“There are many worlds, friend.”
“I’m not your friend.”
“There are many worlds, Íñigo. An infinite number of them, probably. This one we live in is but one droplet in a group of oceans.”
I did not quite gather what he meant, though I knew of the texts and had heard some of the stories.
“Some worlds are very similar to ours. Almost identical. Some are vastly different. What I offer is, quite simply, that one day Agnes wakes up and she is no longer in this world, but in another.”
I didn’t consider the implications or question the mechanism here. It didn’t matter.
“So not death?”
“No, not death.”
“You hinted at death.” I nudged my head toward the door. “Out there, on the street.”
He laughed a laugh as hollow as an abandoned dockside crate.
“I am a salesman. Sometimes one needs… hyperbole.”
“So not death? Just… gone?”
The man nodded and smiled.

[Author’s notes: Wrote this one late, around 8pm. Maybe I’ll do that on occasion, when the day doesn’t allow for an early write. Imagination is different in the evening, but not necessarily less powerful. I confess that several existing works of fiction crossed my mind while writing this, including those similar to Dial M for Murder, but the one that influenced it most (particularly in the first 15-20 minutes) was “The Chaser”, by John Collier. Fantastic short story.]
