30 Minutes Human # 00019
Beach Walk, Rejection, Turtle, Lifetime, Conversation
August 10, 2025

She walked down the narrow stretch of beach, sharp rocks to her left, water to her right. Small crabs scurried about everywhere but largely avoided her: given her relative size, she might prove to be a very problematic predator. Better to steer clear.
It was mildly cloudy that late afternoon, and the sun made the lichen and moss on the rocks appear bright and as multicolored as the nearby rainbow she’d seen a few days earlier. Music played in the distance and she unconsciously walked to its rhythm, avoiding stones, bits of seashell, and other items  to keep her bare feet unscathed.
“Coral!”
She stopped and turned to face him. He was handsome in any condition, his black mop of curly hair down over green eyes and a face as tanned and trim as the rest of him. He was even a bit taller than her, which was unusual. Normally it was she who made heads turn when she entered a room, but since meeting him, eyes went to him as often as they did to her. She knew what she had, though. His appearance didn’t trouble her much, even if she did furtively glance at him on occasion.
“Where are you headed?”
“Down the beach. Going for a walk.”
“Want me to join?” He grinned at her, and she roughly imagined the number of belles who’d fallen for that look before.
“No, I’m fine. I’ll catch you later.” She turned and continued on her way. She felt him start to say something, hesitate, and then turn back the way he’d come, if not quite as fast. He was also not the type to beg. Good for him.
A group of seagulls ahead returned her attention to the path before her. About a dozen of them were intently focused on something laying on the sand at a spot where the beach briefly became a bit wider. She had to get quite a bit closer before they realized her presence and, with some reluctance, flapped off to the nearby palm trees and rocks to wait for her to move on.
It was a turtle. An enormous one, so big that she’d only seen two or three of that size in her life, and she’d spent all of that life around here. She saw that it was dead; the mess the birds had made of its head gave no reason to suspect otherwise. Then she saw that it wasn’t alone.
Another turtle, just as big, stood by, initially hidden by a dip in the beach. Unlike the gulls, this one didn’t seem to mind her presence; it didn’t even partially hide its head. Big turtles were different, they didn’t cower. This one just looked at her. It seemed sad.
Kneeling by the one that had passed away, she noted that it had probably died a while earlier. Not just because of the damage the birds had done, which would take time to achieve given how tough the skin of these animals was, but because of the light unpleasant smell and discoloration. A couple of days, even. She passed her fingers over the large shell, tracing the grooves. It had been a beautiful animal, and now this shell would end up lying as a prop in some overpriced beach restaurant, like the one her recent acquaintances were probably hanging at right now.
The other turtle slowly got up and approached her. She saw that it was also old. She’d heard that they could live longer than a century, if one of the many threats in the land didn’t get them first. If turtles could talk, this one would have some great tales to share.
She was realizing that these might’ve been a couple, that they might’ve been mates, when the turtle bit her. She leapt back, yelped, and instinctively looked around for a weapon, then realized that she was dealing with a turtle. Just walking away at anything above a slow crawl would guarantee that she’d safely avoid this threat.
But she didn’t leave, she didn’t go anywhere. She just looked at the turtle, and the turtle looked at her, and she wondered why she thought she’d heard a loud “Hey!” when it had bitten her. There was nobody around.
“Hello?” she called out while scanning around with her eyes. Nothing. Nobody there.
Keeping an eye on the turtle, she knelt to check her big toe. That’s what the turtle had gone for. It was fine, completely uninjured.
She decided to approach it again. Why had it bitten her? She’d never heard of one of these attacking a human before, and frankly, she didn’t even really feel attacked.
She drew her left hand toward the creature and turned it inward, offering her wrist. The turtle looked at it for a second, then opened its mouth and lightly clamped it down on the wrist.
“Hey.”
She didn’t actually expect anything to happen, so this startled her and she yanked her hand out. The turtle just watched her. Her wrist was fine. She put wrist hand out again, and again the turtle took it.
“Hey.”
She was quiet for a moment, then said, “Hey.”
“Coral?”
“Yes, hi. I’m Coral. How do you know? What’s your name?”
“Your mate yelled it. I heard him.” She laughed and was about to correct him when it said, “I’m Eehh-uu.”
“He’s not my mate. Just a friend. Recently met. He’ll leave again soon enough. But don’t worry about him. Nice to meet you, Eehh-uu.”
“Nice to meet you, Coral.”
She wasn’t sure where to go from here, but asked, “Is this your friend?”
“My mate.”
“Oh. I’m sorry.”
“The dames live longer than us, normally. But she went first. Not what I expected.”
“I’m… really sorry. To the best that I can express.” For a moment she saw herself from outside, crouching and talking with a turtle’s mouth clamped around her wrist, and some part of her almost laughed. The rest of her was much more decent, understood the importance of silent respect when offering condolences, and stayed quiet.
“How long were you together?”
“Eighty-two years. Can you bury her?”
She was still processing the decades he’d mentioned when he made the request for burial. “You sure move fast for a turtle,” she observed.
“Why, you think we can’t think quickly because we move slowly? Come on, human.”

[Author’s note: I put Karol G’s “Si Antes Te Hubiera Conocido” on loop while I wrote this. I do that sometimes with random songs and see what tale pops out. I like how there’s a romance-plot fake-out before we get to what the story’s actually about. Would’ve liked to see the relationship between Eehh-uu and Coral evolve. Her riding the turtle and having an adventure came to mind, but by the time I hit the end I started to see the possibility of something richer, something less stereotypical.]
