30 Minutes Human # 00033
Warriors, Desert, Vacation, Line, Apparition
August 29, 2025

Woe to us, the brave, the fighters.
Woe to us who had the courage to stand before the darkening storm and, feet planted, face the fog and spell the name of Thydas.
Woe to us, the victims. Those who lost the ones who mattered most to stop the onslaught of the smoke.
Woe to us, woe to us. We’ll not allow ye to forget.
* * *
The children were playing by the pool. Nicolás watched them run back and forth along the side of the water, sometimes a bit too close for his liking, but never so close that he felt the need to stand up and interfere. Mariela was being responsible, for once. The previous day’s incident had perhaps left a bit of a mark on her.
As long as the mark was slight and impermanent, he was fine with that. That Luciano’s safety was firmly on his sister’s mind was valuable for all of them.
Sonia lay by her husband and gazed out into the desert, the enormous tan expanse shimmering into an indeterminate sky that spanned above and behind her, no clouds visible, though the entire thing perhaps one enormous cloud. Just the previous day she’d been able to see to the horizon, but there was none of that today; all merely brown murk.
Nico stood and walked over to the kids. She watched him pick Luciano up and nuzzle him with his beard. The three of them giggled, Mariela most of all. It was a bit of a fake laugh, but Sonia knew that she was enjoying herself.
She looked back to the desert and wondered if she should order a Bloody Mary. If the day wasn’t going to improve, she might as well enhance her own mood to even things out.
The first time she saw it, she wasn’t sure if the line was actually there. It was too vertical, too straight, too perfect. She thought there might be an issue with her glasses and took them off to check, but then glanced upward and saw that the line remained visible to her naked eye.
That was odd. She glanced at her family, but they hadn’t noticed anything. Nobody else around her seemed to see anything unusual either.
The line started to become thicker. Imperceptibly at first, but with increasing speed. The line was a perfect uniform shade of dark blue until it hit the horizon, and then it became maroon brown. It was as if a clear, transparent line had been cleaned on the grimy window before her.
“Nico, look.” She pointed.
He turned, saw the line, and looked at it steadily for a moment. Then he turned back toward his wife before returning his attention to the line.
“Mari, come. Luciano.” She got up and took the boy from his father’s arms. “What do you think it is?”
“I don’t know.” He looked to the side and saw a few others watching this odd phenomenon just as curiously.
“Do you think it’s normal?” she asked, a dash of hopefulness to her voice.
“I… don’t think so. Hang on.”
He went to the bar, got the attention of one of the bartenders, and pointed. The bartender glanced, saw, froze, and stared. Then he went to his bar landline and placed a call while excitedly texting on his phone.
As Nicolás drew near again, she asked him what the man had shared. “Nothing. As soon as he saw it he forgot about me, started texting people and making calls.” They both looked around and noted that most others by the pools were now fixedly studying the line.
“This is weird. Let’s go to the room,” said Sonia. “Hey, want to order some sandwiches to the room and play a game?”
“Yayyy!!” exclaimed Mariela, taking her mother’s hand.
They’d barely gone halfway to the main building when, glancing back, Nicolás saw that the line had begun to darken. As he watched, it became completely black, a dark void partition between both sides of the landscape.
He wondered for a moment if it was a column; he now wished he’d taken a closer look at where the line touched the ground. It then suddenly regained its natural color and remained thus, as if nothing had happened.
“So-hun, can you take the kids? I want to watch this thing, figure out what it is. You go to the room.”
She didn’t like it, but as long as she was taking her little ones somewhere ‘safe’, she was fine with it. “Alright, but be careful. We’ll be waiting for you.”
He nodded and returned whence they had come, slightly altering his course toward the resort’s main adult swimming pool. At its far edge he found about half a dozen other men, four of them tourists, two of them staff members.
“Hello,” he said. He received some nods and greetings in return.
“So what is it?” asked Nicolás.
“Nobody seems to know,” said a sandy-haired man in a peach-colored polo shirt. The man stood close to him with his arms crossed, his body language conveying worry and distrust.
“What about the staff?”
“Some of them aren’t saying anything. Others are also puzzled, like these guys, though I’m gathering that these aren’t locals.”
Nicolás nodded. The locals knew what it was, then. Beyond that, he took some comfort from the fact that nobody seemed significantly concerned.
He stood with the men for a few minutes. Then a figure appeared within the line, standing in the horizon.
The figure was that of a man with long hair, tattered black clothes, a black band wrapped around his forehead, and twin scimitars in his hands. He sported tattoos on several different parts of his body.
This generated an immediate reaction. The men by his side chattered excitedly about the nature and identity of this new apparition and a light buzz of conversation arose nearby. The two staff members watched quietly. Nicolás suspected that they didn’t speak each other’s languages.
He’d already seen that the line became hazy and blurry at a certain point below the horizon, so it was difficult to tell if it might be a column emerging from the sand. He and Sonia had already seen that it didn’t go unbroken until the horizon behind them, but instead faded into the sky at about a 45-degree angle.
This character’s appearance bolstered a possibility he’d contemplated earlier: that the line was some sort of portal. He’d not shared it with his wife to not appear foolish (“you and your sci-fi ideas, Nico”), but this swordsman’s sudden materialization made that possibility seem a lot more likely.
The strange man walked forward, out of the line and toward them. Eventually he moved to his right, and the watching men saw that there was another similar figure behind him. Then there was another behind that one, and then another, until about 15 were standing side by side and facing toward the line of hotels on the beach.

[Author’s note: It’s six minutes to midnight, and I’m too tired to do this right now. I guess this answers the question of “how late can I write this and still produce something I enjoy that is coherent and of decent quality?” The answer is “11:30pm is too late, friend”. Lesson taken. But hey, saw it through. Determination and such.]
