30 Minutes Human # 23
Library, Clumsy, Inspired, Poetry, Peckish
August 15, 2025

Felton Swine entered the library through the rotating doors. He half-tripped over himself twice while doing so and quietly blamed it on the two boxes he was carrying. He approached the front desk and, perhaps a bit too loudly, requested a table.
“Mr. Swine, as you know, all tables are open.” The receptionist eyed Felton’s trembling hands and quivering arms, the latter despite their being covered by brown jacket sleeves. ‘Felt wears felt,’ he liked to say, even though that wasn’t what the jacket was made of. Those who heard him would wonder why he was making his outfit seem even worse than it was.
“Yes, but I have a lot here. A lot of materials. I’ll need a full table.”
“See what you can find, Mr. Swine. I can’t do much more for you than that.”
He tottered off, did a lap of the first floor, and ended up selecting the least occupied table he found: only one of the four chairs was taken, and it by a young woman with cat-ear-featuring headphones who sat sideways and was engrossed by whatever was taking place on her small screen.
He dropped the boxes on the table, earning a couple of disapproving looks from his neighbors, and let out a long sigh. That was more exercise than he’d done in months. He should become fit, if there were time for it. But alas, there wasn’t. He had to work, to research, to learn and explore.
He shifted the boxes to the far side of the table, to the corner closest to where his companion sat, and she didn’t even glance around. She was cozy in her pink cat hoodie, was enjoying a play session by her favorite streamer, and would absolutely not let anything happening nearby distract her. She’d earned this break from work and study, both of which sucked.
Felton opened the boxes and removed a few dozen books from them. The clumsiness he’d displayed since entering the building was absent here: he managed the books deftly, keeping not just their order but their alignment as it should be as he set the table up. A pencil sharpener and tiny wastebucket also emerged. Finally, he pulled two notebooks out. One of them he placed to the side, the other open before him to the seventh of its hundred and twenty pages.
Felton Swine was a thing to behold. Depending on what he was doing, he was the proverbial bull in a china shop or a man with the dexterity of a seasoned blackjack dealer. When he yanked out a chair, caused it to fall on its side, straightened it, and sat on it, he was the bull. When he immediately thereafter pulled a book from one of the piles without disturbing anything, opened it to the right page on his first try, and then made a note in the open notebook as if he’d been working uninterrupted for hours, he was the dealer.
“Mr. Swine?” The senior librarian had waited a few minutes for him to settle in and perhaps fix his setup, but no such thing had happened.
He looked up after a few seconds’ delay and looked at her as if he were looking through her. Only partly present, he asked, “Hmm?”
“Mr. Swine, you can’t have open food in the library. Particularly not warm food. It’s against the rules. It smells. It disturbs everybody else here.” The cat girl in pink hadn’t really noticed, but everybody else was watching the scene out of the corner of their eye, waiting for Felton to put his meal (fish?) away so they could focus on their work again.
His only response, however, was to raise his eyebrows. He was still somewhere else.
“Mr. Swine. Your food. There.” She pointed at the cardboard box closest to his table-mate.
He put the book and pencil down and reached for the far box, knocking the closer one to the floor in the process. He tilted it in his direction and saw the breakfast he’d ordered to his apartment earlier: salmon, boiled potatoes, and pilaf rice. He loved fish for breakfast.
“Oh, that. That isn’t mine.” Then after a moment, “well, it is. But I don’t want it. Thanks.”
Then he turned his attention back to his work. His table neighbor, who had finally woken up to the smell, gave him an annoyed look and returned to her screen.
“Mr. Swine, I…” the librarian realized that it was pointless and indeed possibly counterproductive to insist. She picked the offending box up (while lifting the other one from the floor and leaving it where it had been) and walked off with it, probably to dump it all in the trash and leave Felton with half of the boxes he needed. He didn’t see this, though. He was absorbed.
The poesy of Thomas Usk had, of late, become his passion. He had discovered his work while working through some Chaucer, and had quickly become obsessed with the obscure and tragic 14th-century figure. He believed that the man’s verses and use of language were second to none and was determined to make it known to the world, whatever the cost.
He reread one of his favorite verses, one from the second book of The Testament of Love, and chuckled. Then he thought of the name, Margarite. If he had a daughter one day, he would name her Margarite. It was beautiful and unique; the general name root perhaps not so, but this spelling of it, neither English nor French but a from sublime spot in the middle, was unique. Margarite Swine. She’d do him proud, Margarite. Study the language and its art like her father. He looked forward to their time together.
That Felton was single, without prospects, and decidedly unattractive didn’t trouble him. He was becoming a global expert in the language of the heart, in the expression of emotion, and he did not doubt for one second that he would eventually come across the right woman.
After a few hours of jotting down notes, finding relationships between verses, and digging into obscure allusions in several of Usk’s texts, Felton realized that he was hungry. The girl in pink was long gone, and indeed, most of the tables in the library were now vacant. It was Saturday at dusk, and most of its other patrons had other arrangements for their evening. 
He looked toward the boxes (hadn’t he brought some food from this morning’s breakfast?) and was surprised to find that only one box sat there. Where was the other one? He took stock of the books on the table and found them all there; what was missing was the box and nothing else. An inconvenience, to be sure, but one he could handle.
The food was gone, though. He’d have to find sustenance outside.
Felton was a binary creature. He was either focused on work or he wasn’t; there was no gentle awakening for him. When he realized that he had to seek food, the work he’d been completely engrossed by until seconds earlier became secondary, only to be retrieved and returned to once conditions again became propitious for their continuation.

[Author’s notes: I don’t know what to make of Felton Swine, but I like him. He could be a primary or secondary character in any number of types of stories or books, and could be taken in any number of directions, most of which would be interesting given the base that’s already been set here. Wrote this one while listening to classical Japanese string music. I like this one.]
