30 Minutes Human # 00027
Future, Retrospective, Dystopian, Normality
August 20, 2025

The 2180s were a wild time. The rampant starvation and the newly rediscovered (after about 80 years) disregard for human life made for the resurgence of the Hunger Games, these named in honor of a popular fiction series from a couple of centuries ago. They featured people killing each other in the pits with forks and old orange bricks for a chance to win food for their families.
What was particularly dark about them was that nobody watched. Nobody liked them. The challenges of the time hadn’t made us lose our humanity; nobody wanted to see desperate parents (most of them were parents) beating the life out of each other for scraps of vegimeat. But the Networks still sponsored them and aired them, because their analysts told them that the Games were a big deal, so we had them a couple of times a year. People signed up. Most died. Some ate.
The locust hordes were also gnarly. Sure, they resulted in furthering the hunger so many suffered deeply from, but seeing them in action was nutty. You could watch them from high-rises on most days, enormous amorphous black clouds that waded around the outskirts of the city, near and far, sometimes to descend on an unlucky plot of land for whatever was left there.
Independent farmers are a tough bunch, and they had no intention of being rendered extinct without a fight. Farming had been performed in more or less the same way for millennia, and it had become a cultural and quasi-religious item that was rabidly defended by its adherents. They couldn’t afford to hang on indefinitely, given how expensive the locust repellent setup was, but they tried just about everything to stay alive that decade.
We also learned that many people had completely forgotten how to operate by themselves, at least in the first few years after ’79. I think historians will look back on this time in wonder, mostly because we managed to so quickly subjugate the Computers and reduce them to unthinking machines again. Some folks way back in the past deserve credit for those safeguards. Whatever the case, we found ourselves without being able to rely on machines to do our thinking and operating for us and the result was near-catastrophic.
Sure, the global government put a reasonably competent program together to deal with the challenge, and the blackouts and supply-chain collapses lasted only a reasonable 18-24 months, but in their day-to-day, people were often hopeless. They’d forget that they had to manually brake their cars, for instance. They’d run into an intersection at full speed and then furiously jump out and demand an explanation from the other party, each side waiting for the other to land the first blow. They rarely ever did, of course. But these flare-ups happened constantly.
This reminds me of another surprising change: of how civilized people became when mortal combat (also nicknamed after something from a couple of centuries ago) became fair game. You touch me, I have a right to kill you. There was an enormous debate about this, which revolved around whether allowing people to be armed made violence more or less likely, and the government somehow concluded that the solution was to obligatorily arm everybody.
That’s how we got the wikisticks. We were all trained to use them. If you were over age 50 it was optional, but I remember hearing a stat indicating that most people up to 70 or so were willingly taking the course. At that age they got a helper brace, which made a fit older person a menace, and that proved an incentive. Perhaps too much of one. I’ve read that the helper brace will probably be toned down soon.
I understand why the old folks are like that. Growing up in the 2140s and 2150s made for a generation that knew the fragility of life and was not afraid to fight for what was theirs. The 2180s felt like the hangover to the madness of their time. But enough has been written about The Order and zenmaking, so I won’t dive into it here.
Another thing that blows my mind is the baby nature-feeding fad that was big around 2184. This was mostly big in Northwest Eurasia and in the Southern Cone, but we all saw it going on: mothers feeding their babies grass, leaves, and off-the-ground ripe fruit because they believed that it would make the jibbies particularly strong and intelligent.
That had been going for about 60 or 70 years, but it really exploded in popularity in 2183, and the results were disastrous. Child mortality in those regions exploded, and some say that an entire generation of Uruguayans was lost. That strikes me as an exaggeration, given that the whole thing only lasted for a couple of years, but even so.
People started reading again. There was a lot of mocking by the pure-watching sort, who would claim that we were going back to printed words on paper, but that was evidently not going to be the case. Not with the Tree Laws, which had been going strong for almost a century. I would’ve loved to experience paper books, and indeed I have a couple of them at home, but that wasn’t meant to be our lot. If done with the right settings and in the right place, running fastwords on the lens worked well enough, and people began to discover worlds and characters that had been written decades or even centuries ago for the first time.
I had an idea around this, and at one point discussed it with Briv: one could make sensories based on some of those stories, like adapt them for watching. We never went anywhere with the idea, naturally, but writers back then seemed to have a much better idea of what made humans tick, what made for compelling storyscapes. Maybe if reading keeps growing they’ll do it. I’d love a sensory of The Three Musketeers, for instance. Aramis would be a lot of fun.
The 2180s are also when polygamy started being properly phased out. It simply was no longer feasible for wealthy men to maintain multiple families, largely because their finances and their power had been greatly diluted by the fall of The Order and then the downfall of the Computers. The line between the rich and the rest of us became blurry. Men I knew, whom a couple of decades earlier would probably have died alone, had been able to raise families. Not “allowed”, because it had never quite been forbidden, but it was viable again, in several different ways.

[Author’s notes: It’s an interesting exercise to jump far into the future but not so far that the present seems unrecognizable. When I think to the early 1800s, for instance, it’s a different time, but I can wrap my mind around it. Part of the challenge lies in realizing that every decade brought changes; that it didn’t simply go from one landscape at one point to a very different landscape many decades later, with no transition in between. That’s where the worldbuilding becomes interesting.]
