30 Minutes Human # 00020
Ants, Polka, War, Catatonia
August 11, 2025

Dance the pants off the ants in the lands, colleague. Dance the pants like they need a dance and if there’s not a dance they’ll fall.
The ants danced on the plate, in through the bananas and out through the bits of pear, through the delicious curry, sweet curry, and then over the mango bits and, as a flooding multitude of thoraxes and abdomens, on to the big block of pork, dancing, dancing to the polka that came from the radio on the shelf and all the radios in the land could play dancing polkas and each of those would be by dancing pants of ants, and the ants would eat, and the ants would feast.
The ants seemed to multiply, for in food they found plenty, and in plenty they found nesting and the queens gave the orders to bring and bring more, and ants exploded from the rotted pork, a carcass, a block of animal disrespected and torn into cubes for consumption by the pale apes, and they flooded from fruit, and within each formerly pristine shape there lay a set of eggs that did not hatch and thus failed to produce an ant that would otherwise have gone forth to find more foodstuff not initially meant for it but, truly, was there any foodstuff not meant for ants?
The polka continued and the ants danced, they shook their abdomens to the beat of the clarinets and the accordions, and rained down in waterfalls or antfalls from the tables upon which the plates had lain, and then the ants were on the floors, and every surface was theirs, and they sought food, for food was shelter, food was eggs, food was the queens in their delirious dictatorship demanding more from the little ones who would feed them and their lineage next, that lineage, unbroken, all the way up to the First Cell That Was, many more monarchs than the human lines, more powerful, more untouched, because their rules were not questioned.
The ants did not touch the humans when they found them, and the humans only watched above and gazed with tears ever-flowing as their fingertips tittered to the woodwinds and occasional concertinas and the saliva gathered at the cornered of their mouths, sometimes flowing out, sometimes drying, and the eyes were fixed and looking for an exit that would not come. All exits belonged to the ants now, that formed rivers in staircases and down elevator pits and eventually, inescapably, took them outdoors, and then the ants had all.
Even when the torrents of ants that sought food and sometimes found it outside, sometimes among themselves, bore down upon all that once was, even if always making space for the humans and their Space God Watching, colleague, the polka played, and if the sound of it was absent the rhythm thereof was not, and the legs of the ants found the legs of more ants and the molasses of deep notes that the tubas produced could be seen in the rivers, colleague!
They could be identified and felt and, yes, heard by just watching them as they became the new tarmac upon which nothing rode save themselves, the ants were the music, they danced with each other and their pants fell but never were so they always fell and were always worn. They danced in twos and threes and sixes and fours, they were all over interlaced with other dancing groups and some danced alone and all danced together and beat as one every time the polka called for it and thus began a great struggle.
For the polka was all-powerful, it could not be escaped, it ruled the movement of the ants more than their desire for food, and thus more than the queen, and the queen would not have that, she would not be outranked by this foolish sound and beating of legs to trumpets that always sought a final say, but she despaired. She despaired because the ants cared little for her indications and it all started to fall apart, the entire movement, the entire massive glory of it all, because the ants just wanted to polka, to lose their pants, colleague, and the eggs were no longer their priority to feed or make because polka was to be danced.
There came a great period of darkness where what used to be unhesitantly flowing streams of tiny black creatures became knotted by interpretation, and this ball saw the polka differently than that knot, and harmony became dissonance, and there was much death below, for the lowest level of the creatures that had once been the copper for the current was now only padding for great flying masses of furious ants, furious, because their way to polka was the only way, and they would not stand the thought of another group of ants doing the polka another way, and in this darkness some rulers failed to understand how to react and their reign perished. They were torn into bits of prickly muck unrecognizable as the lofty beings they once were and thus ended millennial bloodlines.
Other queens were sage and understood that if you cannot beat them, then polka you must, and they aligned themselves with the polka that was now everything, that was not disconnected from the radios and no longer in tune with what the Source of the Polka was playing but was simply polka manifest in the electricity of the ants, and each ball of ants, as time passed, became increasingly separate from the rest because their polka was the one true polka, and stray ants joined these balls, and they became colossi, great enormous behemoths of ants that were sometimes compact and spherical but sometimes ghastly, horrible monstrous messes without shape or direction—but with polka, and that polka surged through them and made them a unit whose only purpose was to obey the divine exigencies of the trombones that in turn bowed and performed only as the accordion, the great Accordion, decreed that they should.
The Accordion that had been One and was now Many but only One for Each ant was that almighty power. The distance between each pulsing knot of ants had grown to be galactic, for each one heard a different Accordion, and the only solution to the darkness and the conflict was the end of all decentralized ant masses but one.
The One that Remained, if that ever came to pass, would decree that its polka would last years untold, ages, epochs, and pants would be dropped thus until the Star The Humans Loved reached its desperate stage and swallowed them all whole, the one great ball that they could not control, the one great ball that moved independent of any polka, and there would be darkness widespread because ants and polka as one would have ceased to exist.
Unless.
The humans knew, saw one queen, one bright queen dark as the polished pit of an ice-cream bean. The humans were the origin of the polka and of all the things new, not the things old, of course, for the things old long predated the fleshy, staring, quivering statues. They had not moved from their position but stared with eyes wide and misframed and cracking, and trembling eyelids leaked a thin transparent fluid down their faces, sometimes into their mouth, and that mouth was a narrow pink frame of horror over crooked parallelogram pearls that could not possibly hold much longer. The skin was taut, so taut, the lower corners of that pink frame so far below and to the side, there were tears in the pink and bright red or rich white showed themselves there, but still despite this their fingers twitched to the polka they heard, even if the ants no longer cared about the radio polka, they cared about Polka, and that told the queen that there was knowledge there, knowledge to end the Sun Death of the planet of Polka.
Thus they approached a human for the first time, they broke the understanding, and a dark crawling proboscis of ant flew down the gullet of a street-bound woman and as she stared at the skies, pupils afire, the ants discovered every nook and cranny within her.

[Author’s note: I didn’t want something too formulaically plot-driven (as much as the other ones so far), so I started out with that opening line, and, well, here we are. I did see the entire thing in my mind as I wrote it. This is more of a fever dream than the fever dream piece I did recently, save that it’s not a dream at all; within itself, it’s real.]
