30 Minutes Human # 00026
Airport, Running Late, Collision, Child
August 19, 2025

He almost tripped over the woman with the rolling suitcase. It was this big, pink, horrible thing, with what might’ve been a unicorn head popping out of the top side, and there were rainbow-colored tassels dragging on the floor behind it. He imagined it must be a new bag; otherwise, it would mean that she was often washing those tassels so they would retain a semblance of their original shade.
The next obstacle needed to be decided upon: should he take the moving walkway or run parallel to it? There were three groups of people on the walkway, and the last one had entered relatively recently. It would be maybe a 35-40 second ride if he stood behind them and didn’t move. There were four individuals in that group, and one of them was particularly girthy and looked like he hadn’t shaved in over a week. Parallel was a safer, faster bet.
A woman offered him a sample of cologne as he ran toward the far gate with a carry-on bag, a suit bag, a duty-free bag, and while wearing two jackets. He almost slapped it out of her hand. He suspected that these salespeople, like those who pushed flyers in runners’ faces on the street, did it on purpose for the love of trolling. No, obviously he had no interest in the cologne sample; he was sprinting through goddamn Terminal 3 with distant hopes of making his flight. Get out of my face.
He saw the sandwich just in time. It was one of those triangular ones they often sold at a 350% markup at airports, the ones that claimed to be tuna or chicken salad (this one looked like chicken) but was mostly tomato, lettuce, and mayo. He’d bought them a couple of times when very hungry until eventually purchasing one that only had the filling against the visible edge, and on the inside there was only lettuce. Bastards.
The sandwich sat split on the ground, the two triangles next to each other, a mess of mayo and chicken (or fish?) in a neat little chunk in between. Stepping on it might spell doom; a slip right now would not only be very painful but result in an immediate delay and quite possibly also slow his further in the crucial minutes that followed. So he leapt in mid-stride, leapt by throwing his forward leg ahead toward a spot where he hoped the sandwich would no longer be, and for a split second prayed to whatever deity was available to assist him.
He made it. He brought his back leg in, the tip of his sneaker barely grazing the accidented mayonnaise, the wheels of his bag all but certainly being seasoned on the way across it. They’d lose that mayo, he knew. There would be carpet further ahead, and in the meantime, it might even help him glide a little bit faster. He felt a slight sprain on his groin, but it wasn’t terrible, and he figured that it was far from the worst-case scenario of how this might’ve turned out.
There was a turn in the big hallway, and then he saw it, far in the distance. Gate 67A. He was boarding on 67B (LAST CALL), but figured that the two of them might be adjacent. He might actually make this damn flight.
Unfortunately, the momentary bubble of hope proved treacherous. He didn’t see the little boy until it was too late. The child had run out of nowhere and into his path and then under him and then behind him. He fell and fell hard, and for a moment was somewhere between pained and angry—he’d taken a medium-hard blow to the knee—before a voice in the back of his head told him to check on the child.
A couple of concerned adults had run out to assist the child, and one helpful-looking lady had approached him and asked him if he was fine. He was, and firmly got up to prove it to himself. He was. The knee had taken a hit but nothing unusual. The boy, then. He walked over and an angry man went up to meet him.
“What the hell is wrong with you?! Running like this in a crowded hallway?? You hurt this kid! You’re going to jail, you careless—”
“Ruben, stop. Come here. Now.” The woman’s voice wasn’t loud, but had an unmistakable authoritative edge that deactivated Ruben immediately.
He looked through the crowd and saw the child sitting up. He looked fine. He picked up his things, yelled “Sorry, really, sorry!” and continued his run to the gate.
On approaching the agents he screamed, screamed as soon as he figured his voice might carry. They saw him. They gestured that he should hurry. He was fine. He’d made it.
***
He had a middle seat, which was fine for this flight, but ultimately got lucky: there was a couple split by his assigned position, and they asked him if he’d like to trade with either of them so they could sit together. Certainly. The aisle was fine. Thank you! No, thank you.
His luggage he’d stuffed where he could as he walked down the aisle to Row 22, so by the time he got to his seat, he only had his book in hand. 1,001 Arabian Nights, second of two tomes, was what he was working on, and he thought he might be able to get through at least a dozen of those Nights while the flight lasted.
He was drenched because of his impromptu sprinting workout and now faced the common dilemma of whether to leave himself jacketless, in order to cool off faster, or keep one jacket on, in order to protect himself from assault by the merciless airplane A/C that he was already feeling on his unzipped chest. He decided to keep the jacket on, albeit the lighter one that he had been wearing on top of the other one.
Then he settled in and sighed. This one had been a bit close, even for him.
“Will passenger Oscar Morralai… Mor Alalen… Morlalalenianta come to the front of the plane, please?”
Crap. What now? He got up and went toward the cockpit, and there by the open door found two airport security officers. On second assessment, one of them might be an actual policeman.
“Mr. Moralan…” the man hesitated and look at the small tablet he was holding.
“Morlan Lanei Talana. Yes.”
“Right. Where’s that from?”
“My grandfather made it up. He wanted a clean break when he migrated. Don’t think it means anything.”
“Alright. Sir, you’re not going to be able to travel on this flight today. We must detain you for assault.”
He distantly noted that this police officer was being immensely polite, and wondered if this was his because of his personality or because of fear of the camera he’d seen the woman in 1E activate on her phone.
He then more closely noted the fact that he’d been told that he wouldn’t be able to fly.
“I’m sorry, officer, what do you mean? Why?”
“While running to this gate you collided with a young child. You collided pretty hard. And then, to make matters worse, you ran off.”
Figured. He felt like he’d been caught stealing gummies from his aunt’s drawer chest.
“Is the boy alright?” No sense in denying it. There were probably more cameras in the airport than passengers, and besides, he’d absolutely run through the kid. If there were consequences for it, that was that.
“The boy is fine, fortunately,” said the police officer.
The other one glanced at his companion and added, as one might when not wishing to contradict a superior but needing to, “He’s being checked by airport medical personnel. He looks fine, but it needs formal confirmation.” To be helpful (what was the deal with these overly nice people?), he added “He didn’t hit his head, fortunately.”

[Author’s notes: I cheated on this one. This isn’t something I’ll do very regularly at all. I wrote half, then there was a bit of a pause, and then the other half (the asterisks mark the spot). My excuse is that I had to board my flight, so the pause lasted while I boarded the plane and took my seat. You’ll note that both half-endings feel rushed. On another note, I don’t think I like this character… though I sympathize with the madness to reach the gate.]
