30 Minutes Human # 22
Starshower, End of the World, Cliffside, Final Conversation
August 13, 2025

Stars rained down everywhere. They didn’t care if they had to go through anything—through a house, a tree, a mountain, a cow. A person. Through Amy. That star hadn’t minded. None of them did, evidently.
“What’s happening, Archer?” asked Chick.
“It’s the end. Everything’s ending now.” He put his arm around her shoulder.
The view from the cliff was spectacular. The stars were coming down in all colors all around them, developing a long, comet-like tail at a certain altitude, and then bringing that ever-changing colorful streamer with them all the way down to the ground. The tail sparkled and its colors varied from one moment to the next, and it all looked like a deluge of rainbows arriving at midnight.
Nothing was affected by impact, or not visibly, save for living creatures. There was no protection, either. The stars were too big and dropped too fast; if it was your turn, you’d fade like Amy had. Probably painless. Then you’d become a dry gray husk that looked, for lack of a better term, “turned off.” They’d seen a couple of dogs and a few birds with the same appearance on the path here.
It would probably be their turn soon. They were coming down harder, and it was probably inevitable that one eventually hit the edge of the cliff.
“Do you think it hurts?” she asked.
“I don’t know. She looked peaceful when she went, and also after she went. So… probably not.”
“That guy in the overalls also looked peaceful. The farmer.”
“Yes, he did.” Archer had forgotten about the overall-sporting bearded man bent over a fence like a morbid stereotype. He and his cow had faded at the same time. There were worse ways to go.
Chick looked up. The streaks in the sky resembled the old hyperspace effect, with silver, green, blue, and purple rays born of points that then raced outward.
What an end to the man’s world. Movies and books and news always hinted that it might be coming, but none of them ever foresaw anything like this. It was beautiful, like God above didn’t hold our malice against us and gave us a memorable finale.
“Did you earn Heaven?” she asked.
The question startled him, both because he’d been lost in thought and because of its enormous immediacy.
“Did I earn Heaven?” He thought for a moment and looked toward the horizon, where thin lines showed that the stars were not letting any place off the hook. “I don’t know, Chick. You know I don’t really believe in that.”
“What if what you believe didn’t matter? You know the rules for Heaven, everybody knows the rules. Did you earn it?” There was an urgency in her voice that made him glance upward. He wanted to give her peace of mind with his answer but found himself responding with the truth.
“I don’t know. I’ve done some bad things. Not terrible things, but bad things, like I guess anybody my age has. I regret some of them, but not all of them, and there are many that I’ve forgotten. So I don’t know how that would play.”
“But you’ve also done good things, Archer. You helped me out many times. And others. We all saw it. You’re a good guy.”
He grunted at this. Yeah. Maybe. He didn’t like to think about it.
“I guess. We’ll see.”
A dark green car was speeding on a row below when a star went through it. The car veered off-road, toppled a fence, and struck a tree. Nobody emerged from it.
“It’s crazy that we didn’t bring this upon ourselves. It’s not like nuclear Armageddon or chemical warfare or the ozone layer. We managed to make it to the end without blowing it up in our faces.”
She was sitting and hugging her knees, and when she said this she simulated something blowing up in her hands while she made a soft ‘boosh’ sound. It made him laugh.
“Maybe we’re not as bad as we think we are. We’re certainly not as big.”
For some reason he thought about the last airplane they’d seen, perhaps an hour and a half earlier. Nobody would be so mad as to fly in this ‘weather’.
As if on cue, the high-pitched rumble of a propeller materialized out of the skies to the west. It was a small Cessna, a four-seater, by Archer’s reckoning. It wasn’t flying too high above them, and it wasn’t going too fast.
They quietly watched the plane cruise through the skies of the Apocalypse. A couple of times it swerved to the side to avoid a falling star that happened to be blazing in from ahead, but other than that it mostly flew straight.
Some hearts were sturdier than others, some souls less troubled by the end than the majority. Chick felt uplifted by the passengers of the aircraft, taking the End of the World into their hands and giving themselves a beautiful landscape as the Last Thing They Ever Saw. Rock on, little Cessna.
Despite the apparent odds, it eventually flew out of sight, unscathed. Perhaps they’d been lucky, or perhaps their chances hadn’t been as bad as they seemed. The two of them were still alive and kickin’ on this cliff, after all.
She tapped his knee with her hand. “What were your parents like?”
“I never knew my Mom. Not sure what happened to her; I heard conflicting stories over the years. That she’d just vanished, that she’d been killed, that she’d been kidnapped, that she’d left. That somebody had seen her somewhere once. I don’t know. She was never a figure in my life. My dad raised me, and he was a quiet guy. Honorable, hard-working, and you could tell that there had been a flame to him earlier in life. Don’t know what that life would’ve become if I hadn’t been there to anchor him forward.”
Chick didn’t know any of this, and not having a good read on how to respond, stayed quiet, watching the water before them. She saw three stars fall into it in quick succession, then one go into a warehouse complex that sprawled nearby, then a fifth star go into the water. She wondered if fish were floating up to the surface there.
After a minute, he continued. “I have good memories with him, though. He never raised his voice or his hands at me, but he didn’t need to. I respected him. He mostly let me do as I pleased, but there were lines that I was not allowed to cross, and those were clear from early on.
“He moved to a cabin in the mountains a few years ago, said he wanted to be alone. Last time I saw him was maybe three years ago. I visited him. We sat there for about half an hour, saying just about nothing to each other, and then I left. A few months later I heard he’d died of a heart attack at home. He’d lain there for about a week and a half before they found him.”
She was going to express condolences, and they would’ve sounded lost and formulaic, when the star fell. Beautiful colors were everywhere for a moment, lilac, turquoise, green, it all sparkled and was cold and then warm and then grey and then came an ecstatic release and they knew no more.

[Author’s note: Sign me up for this Armageddon. It’s indeed probably better than we deserve. I was going to have the Earth shake and the planet start to fall apart because of all of these “stars” going through its core but never got around to it. I liked the conversation between Archer and Chick better and kept it going until the end.]
