30 Minutes Human # 00030
Tapir, Hunt, Tribesmen, Ambush, Jaguars
August 24, 2025

The tapir suddenly froze, instincts blaring, and looked around with wide open eyes. There was something close to him, wasn’t there? He looked around once, twice, thrice, his snout alert to detect the lightest smell that might not belong. But he saw nothing, smelled nothing, heard nothing. Eventually, he figured that it was safe to go on, and so he did.
The spear flew in from his left. It entered his skull ahead and below his ear, swept through the animal’s brains, and cleanly exited out the other end, only losing momentum and then movement when it was entirely more than halfway through. The tapir took two more steps and went down on its front legs, then fell to the side, quite dead.
‘I warned you’, signaled Tulu.
Akki looked at him and said nothing, then turned his attention back to their prey. The jungle was silent, so he stepped out, picked the warm carcass up, and carried it back to where they’d been hiding.
‘I warned you. He heard you. You need to stop moving like that.’ Tulu was signaling angrily, perhaps more angrily than he initially meant to, but now that it was out he found himself becoming excited by his words.
‘You always do this. You believe that you are silent, but you are not. You must learn to stay still.’
Akki again said nothing and started pulling the spear out. It had been a very clean strike, so the weapon could be reused if properly salvaged. Tulu allowed him to finish, then slapped him on the shoulder as soon as he was done.
‘Stop ignoring me.’
Akki looked at him firmly but expressionless.
‘You need to listen. You need to learn to listen. Stop being so hardheaded.’
Akki considered turning his attention back to the animal, but knew that he’d not get peace until he somehow responded to his friend. He nodded.
Tulu exhaled sharply out his nose and looked around, making sure that no jaguars or any other threats had approached while they were in conversation. Everything seemed to be as it should.
Akki signaled that they should go.
‘Go? Why? We need at least another, and better if it’s two more.’
Akki once again signaled that they should go. That he was done.
‘Is this because you screwed up and I’ve berated you for it?’ Tulu felt himself growing hot.
The two men looked at each other, their stance a comfortable low squat that they could hold for hours if they had to. Akki exhaled sharply and stood into a crouch, then walked deeper into the forest. Tulu saw wisdom in not pressing his point further and followed.
They came across a small pond, one that they’d both visited in the past. Akki crouched and diligently washed the spear; he didn’t like weaponry to rot. Once that was done, he handed it to Tulu, then signaled ‘One more.’
Tulu nodded as he examined the other’s handiwork. He had a knack for taking care of weapons, and it was starting to influence the strength and growth of their village. He and Akki had known each other since they were babies, having been born but three weeks apart, and it had been an experience to see his lifelong friend start to become respected because of his craftsman’s ability. Even the elders sometimes greeted him as they passed.
They certainly didn’t greet Tulu.
He didn’t mind, though. He loved the hunt, and he was good at it. He’d eventually become a hunting elder, like his father and uncle before him. He was happy for his friend, and deep down also knew that it would be in his best interest to be this close with a craftsman elder, given their rarity. Sometimes entire generations came and went without one.
All of that said, Akki was terrible at hunting. Tulu suspected that he didn’t particularly enjoy nor care about it. His heart was in weapons and tools, and hunting was increasingly something he was just forced to do.
They returned whence they had come and took the direction the tapir had earlier strolled in from. It was possible that there was another group of them in that direction, perhaps their prize’s family. Tulu led the way, and Akki followed with the dead tapir slung over his shoulder.
No group of tapirs was evident, so eventually they reverted to their usual quiet exploration in whatever direction felt best. Despite the heavy underbrush, they could walk in complete silence—even Akki had learned to do this well, having picked the skill up when they were children.
Although Tulu was the more skilled hunter, it was Akki who sensed a presence, turned his head, and caught a glimpse of it. Beautiful green eyes, a pronounced snout, yellow fur, black marks. Watching him. Watching the tapir. Watching all of them.
They’d seen each other, so the game was up. Akki hissed briefly and Tulu swiveled. He followed his friend’s eyes and saw nothing, but once he began to approach he spotted the predator. He slowly continued moving, never taking his eyes off the animal, until he was by Akki’s side.
Tulu slowly turned until they were back to back, and as he did so he spotted first one jaguar, then another. All about as distant, all watching them, the three similarly spaced apart. They were being ambushed, and both young men knew that this likely wouldn’t end well. It was rare for jaguars to hunt in packs, but when they did, they were particularly fearsome.
“The tapir. I’ll set it down. Then we move out, the way we came,” said Akki steadily. There was no need to signal at this point; the game was up.
“Alright. Put it down, but don’t drop your spear.” Both men had their weapons trained on the felines, Tulu slowly switching back and forth between his two targets.
“How many do you have?” asked Akki.
“I see two. There may be others.”
“Three. Yacu, Yacu…” he muttered.
“Let’s go. Maybe they’ll go for it. But be ready for them. Do you remember that day?”
“I do,” responded Akki. Years back, they’d been attacked by a jaguar and had survived unscathed. They’d have to do it again, but facing much rougher odds.

[Author’s notes: I like the way this one came out. It’s probably not immensely accurate, but I’ve never claimed to be anthropologist or historian. This is a pair of characters I’d enjoy further developing; their world and village structure also seem interesting.]
