30 Minutes Human # 00029
Couple, Social Media, Beach, Boob Jealousy, Pilates
August 23, 2025

“I’d love to go the beach tomorrow.”
“But a little while ago you said you’d rather stay in.”
“Yeah, but I don’t know. Now I want to go. We can go early, like at 10.”
Louis shifted on his side of the bed and looked at her. She was scrolling through her feed, lips slightly pursed. She’d seen something on there that had pissed her off, and he debated whether asking her about it was an intelligent move.
“What happened? What did you see?”
She said nothing, kept scrolling, lips unchanged. He was just about to sit up and deal with the fact that she was now apparently and inexplicably angry with him when she said, “Andie’s boobs look amazing with this new tan she got. Look.”
She searched for the right account, selected the most recent picture, and showed him. Andie’s boobs did, indeed, look amazing, and sure, maybe the tan helped. He looked away after a prudent couple of seconds.
“Alright, we’re going to the beach tomorrow,” Louis said as he got out of bed.
* * *
She didn’t know what she wanted to do with the rest of her afternoon. She’d been feeling a bit angsty and bloated, thank-you-very-much to the cauliflower in her lunch salad, and was juggling the possibilities of staying in, going shopping, cuddling with Louis while watching a movie, or going to the gym for some solo Pilates.
She’d never share this with her friends, but Cassidy loved solo Pilates. Nobody else around her making noises or farting, no need for silly small talk, no teacher to impress or to get instruction from. Instruction was good, but since she had a good read on how to do the exercises, it became a bit of an annoyance.
However, she hated the idea of being seen by anybody there. Of Jen and Andie talking about how she was spotted doing Pilates by herself like a loser. In an empty room. She could picture them now, giggling and talking about her nose or her belly button. She hated them sometimes.
‘Get out of your head, Cass.’ She heard Louis in her mind. ‘Stop participating in fights that aren’t happening.’
It was 3:35. The gym would be open until 5:00, and it generally died after lunch on Saturday. Screw it. She’d go do some Pilates. And then maybe a bit of shopping.
* * *
Louis finished shaving, brushed the bits of hair off his chest, cleaned the sink, and put the shaver away. He inspected his work closely, approved, and went to the close to change.
He had to stop putting off the purchase of new blades for the lawnmower. That he could do today. He also wanted to get a new cap, so he’d swing by Ostie’s and but that.

[Author’s note: I was interrupted mid-write, and unlike the recent airport-themed one that was split in half by a few minutes, here I was overly distracted and lost the thread and the worldsetting. It would thus be a different mind that writes the second half, and that’s something I prefer to avoid. This is but a fragment of what might’ve been.]
