30 Minutes Human # 00021
Workshop, Small Paintings, Deliberate, Artisan
August 12, 2025

He threaded the wire through the needle and was careful not to let any of its strands get caught, or even hitched, on the edges of the small aperture. Millimeter by millimeter, centimeter by centimeter, inch by inch, the copper string made its way through until that which had crossed was the same as that which hadn’t.
Then he braided it. Tiny tight braids, each one patiently wrapped and aligned, the once-thin wire was now slightly thicker and sturdier and felt as if produced by a machine, even under close examination. Twelve meters of it were ready and coiled on the floor of his workspace by the time he finished. At the end he set up a small loop, this for no particular purpose other than aesthetics.
He passed to the porcelain ears. They were each protected with bubble wrap and tape, perhaps an unnecessary measure by their manufacturer, but it was a gesture he valued. They understood the importance of what they made and treated it accordingly. He liked to deal with professionals.
The first ear he drew a rabbit on. He quickly realized that this wasn’t just any rabbit; it was Peter Rabbit. His mother and aunts had owned tea sets that featured the character, and childhood memory could weigh strongly when developing a task like this one. Peter wore yellow pants and brown lace-up sneakers (with white rubber toe caps, a modern touch). He also sported a dark blue vest that might be confused for denim and in his hand there was a faux-leather suitcase. Faux because it would be morbid for Peter to carry real leather, which wouldn’t do. Peter looked happy. He seemed satisfied with his moment in life.
Goodson put the ear in a corner of the bench and went to work on the next ear. He thought of a robin and a woodpecker and ended up drawing a combination of both, a handsome bird with a bright red chest and wings who, from the neck up, sported ebony-black plumage that finished in something of a crew cut. The beak was back as well, and the bird faced to the right. Its attention had been caught by something.
Grapes would do nicely for the next ear. A bunch of grapes, though not so rich that they’d be indistinguishably small in the image. He saw them in his mind’s eye and held them in his mind’s hand, perhaps twenty grapes, certainly no more than thirty. They were joined together by a webbed stalk that was optimistically green, but that was his prerogative.
As he drew the grapes he thought about the ears. Speaking of morbid, why ears? They were roughly the shape of rhombi, about six centimeters tall from tip to bottom, and of eight millimeters of thickness. He’d been clear about the 8mm and they’d delivered as requested, always to his satisfaction.
He continued on this task and drew a tiger, a stork, a crane, and train tracks that led into the woods. When he finished that fourth one he stared at it for a moment, for he found the image troubling. It reminded him of a moment from his early youth that he’d long made an effort to forget, but it always lingered in the corners of his memory waiting to return to the forefront of his thoughts, as it did now. The tracks he’d drawn seemed too big for the vegetation they entered, as if the shrubbery had been placed there on purpose to hide something that lay right behind it.
This wouldn’t do. It wouldn’t do at all. He didn’t want that near his project, nowhere remotely close to it. Fortunately, he’d ordered two spares, just in case there was any trouble with any of them, and this would evidently be one of those. He was tempted to break it, even to pulverize it with his press, but kept himself from doing so. That would come only at the end, once he knew for sure that he had all the ears he needed. He could paint over the tracks and shrubbery if necessary. But only if necessary.
He readied another ear and realized that the inspiration had gone out of him. He considered changing task and drilling the holes, but decided not to break the sequence he’d settled on: first the pictures, then the holes. The braided, needlepoint wire could wait where it was, for it wouldn’t be used until later.
He owned a separate liner brush for each color and thus had no issue with closing each of the paint pods and putting them back in their spot on the shelf. The brushes he took to the sink in the corner cabinet and cleaned them one at a time, gently squeezing their hairs under the stream until the water remained clear after contact. Then he dried them with a paper towel (wasteful, but he preferred this to cloth) and put them in their case.
He passed a cloth moistened with a removal chemical over his bench, making sure to eliminate any droplets of paint that might otherwise seek to make a permanent home on a surface he preferred pristine. That cloth went in the small used-cloth basket, where he kept them for a couple of weeks before throwing them out and sourcing new ones.
The ears were drying on the corner where he’d left them, and the wire lay in a wide spool by the wall. He looked at it all, felt satisfied, and turned the light off as he went upstairs and closed the door.
* * *
He wore his hunting hat today and his brown walking jacket. The fabric was tweed-like, though not quite tweed; he’d received it as a present from a cousin some years earlier, and she’d not known how to answer his question about what it was made of. The label on the back simply said “Hoffney” and a code number, and that told him nothing. He didn’t know Hoffney and had never made a point of seeking it out. The fabric, he’d eventually decided, worked better as a mystery.
The wind was stirred up but pleasant, blowing around him without being bothersome nor carrying dust or grit to his face. Occasionally he’d spot leaves fluttering in the grass to his side, but they never carried far. He preferred it windy, even if he sometimes said otherwise. Still air made it feel like something was missing.

[Author’s notes: Last night I thought about writing a detailed one about an artisan and his work, but then I realized that I didn’t want to write for half an hour about threading wire or about drawing Peter Rabbit. Not at that level of detail. I don’t know if it’s the idea of writing that or the fact that I’d have to do too much research to pull it off properly, which would break up the flow of the exercise. On another note, several times I also wondered if there was anything macabre or secretive to this character, but ultimately chose to keep it civil. I’ve always liked this sort of figure in books and movies, and it was pleasant to write one.]
