30 Minutes Human # 16
Child, Cabin, Bear, Encounter
August 5, 2025

The little boy opened the cabin door brusquely, and then as if startled by his own action near-closed it immediately. Then he slowly nudged it open again until he had just enough space to peek through.
Within he spotted a bed and a bedside table, the bed properly made, the bedside table spotless. Behind these there was a clean window that showed the treetops of the dell beyond.
Identifying nothing troublesome, he opened the door a bit more and saw a thick wooden dresser. It featured three drawers and four trinkets atop, and one of them looked like a dark-feathered wooden duck.
Drawing courage from the uneventfulness of his adventure so far, he opened it further. In the other corner there was more shelving, this one more practical in its purpose, for in and on it were pots, pans, kettles, and a few other unremarkable metallic items. He pushed the door open further until it bumped against something, which made him wince, but then he noted a second similar bed behind the door. There was an identical window facing the first one he'd seen, so the door had probably hit a twin bedside.
He stood at the entrance and admired his work. As he looked to the wooden duck, he remembered his parents’ words: “always knock before you enter, son.” He hadn’t done that. Oops. But no harm done; there didn’t seem to be anybody here.
The boy turned and looked at the hillside behind him. Nothing had changed. There was nobody there: just birds and, in the distance, a stray sheep. The pines in the distance stood at both sides of the road, a yellow butterfly fluttered over the daffodils that dotted the hillside, and casual cloud wisps floated overhead.
He turned back to the log cabin, and concluding that he was alone, took a step back. He wanted to admire what he’d discovered. The structure was well built, and the roof above looked as sturdy as the walls. There was no chimney—he noted a burned spot of ground behind the cabin that suggested that cooking was done outside—and the outhouse halfway into the small valley told him that it would never smell foul within.
He entered the cabin. He ran his fingers over the tight bedspread, down the side of the cabinet, and over the handles to the kitchenware. He knocked on the wall, lightly pounded the cover on the second bed, and looked under that one and its twin. Nothing below, either.
Then he glanced at the dark-winged duck above and approached the drawer shelf. The bottom drawer had more sheets for the beds and a couple of unexciting cloth packs. The next drawer up he was able to open, but then realized that he’d have to climb up, and remembered what had happened with the last drawer he’d stood on earlier that year. That had been a world of pain, most of it from the scared punishment he’d received from his parents. No more of that, thank you very much. He closed the drawer.
Then he found that he was bored. The cabin had been explored and there was nothing within it. With some difficulty he climbed up on the bed, removing his shoes a bit too late for his absent mother’s taste, but nonetheless keeping most dirt from reaching the pristine-white cloth. From there he took a better look at the wooden duck.
There was nothing special about it.
Then he lay down, hands under his head, and examining the well-aligned ceiling above him, fell asleep.
* * *
He woke up perhaps an hour later, and all drowsiness fled when he realized that he was no longer alone. An enormous brown bear stood next to him, in the space between both beds, looking around.
He’d forgotten to close the door. The bear had walked in, and the bear had woken him up. That much was evident. But now what?
Paralyzed with fear he just lay still and stared at the enormous creature that took up most of the space in the edifice. The bear was poking about the pots, forks, and spoons, reasonably identifying it as a likely place for food. Finding nothing it turned its attention to the other shelf, but it featured even less in the way of excitement.
The bear then turned to the boy. She—the bear was a lady, though the child had no way of knowing this—had seen him when she’d walked in and now found that he was awake. They stared at each other for a moment, she with some curiosity, for she’d never been this close to a lone human cub before, and he with terror of a profundity he never would’ve imagined.
Then she half-turned, sniffed him a few times, and nudged him with her nose a bit. She licked the boy’s hand, and he unwillingly let out a squeal of fright so primal that she pulled back.
She’d had cubs of her own. Two of them. One of them had drowned in the high rocky river, and the other had fallen in a human trap, had several bones broken, and never quite recovered until eventually passing on a hard rainy afternoon.
She didn’t hold a grudge against the humans for it, though. That’s the way things were. And this cub had no responsibility for what had happened, of course. She didn’t quite think of it that way, but he was harmless, he was scared, and he was in need of protection or comfort.
She grunted. A brief and heavy grunt without further approaching the little creature. The boy stared wide-eyed, still terrified, so she grunted again, and this time nodded her head up and down.
Children have a way of understanding the world that, tragically, most of us lose after a certain age. But seeing the way this bear had stepped back and was now trying to speak to him, as he saw it, he suddenly felt his fear recede a bit and knelt up on the bed.
“Go. Bear. Go.”
He pointed out the door, and the bear glanced at his hand. “Go.”
The bear grunted.
“Get out. Now. Go, bear. Go.”
The bear grunted again and saw the child’s footwear on the floor. She knew what these were, so she grabbed one of them between her teeth and put it up on the bed.
“No! Bear, you’re going to make the bed dirty. Go out. Leave. Leave me.”
In response, the bear raised the other shoe and pushed them both forward.
“Bear! Look at how you’re tracking dirt!” The boy picked the shoes up with one hand and scuffed the dirt with the other. Then he looked back at the animal and, making a decision, stuck his hand out toward her. “Come here.”
The bear approached, and the child petted her snout.

[Author’s note: I had a dim idea that there would be a bear involved, though I might’ve taken too long in describing the cabin. I suppose this is a take on Goldilocks. I think I did a good job describing the bear’s thoughts and actions. Could be fun to expand this one.]
