30 Minutes Human # 00031
Best Friends, Confession, Relationship, Love Triangle, Shattered
August 25, 2025

“You what?”
“You heard me.” Jacques wanted to say more but was feeling strangely monosyllabic. He wasn’t accustomed to conflict like this. Not with anyone, and particularly not with Pierre.
“You… what?!?” Pierre stood up and sudden-marched around the bedroom, his head in his hands, eyes facing forward but not looking at anything in particular. Jacques kept his seat by the computer.
“It had been brewing for a long time, man. That’s the truth. All after you broke up, of course.” That last point was crucial.
“How long… how long has it been going on?” Pierre rubbed his eyes, walked up to the door, did a 180, and marched back on his steps with the same pointless intensity.
“Since there began to be something there? Maybe eight months. Since something actually happened? About…” he hesitated, wondering if he should tell the truth. But he was already here. Might as well rip the band-aid off. “…two months and a half.”
This made Pierre stop in his tracks and stare at his lifelong friend, mouth agape. As he stood there, frozen in time, the only thing that seemed to change were his eyes, which flashed through several stages of broken-heartedness in seconds.
“So like, since March?” he asked softly.
“Yeah.”
“And you were already having a vibe since, what, September?” The word ‘vibe’ came out choked.
“August,” responded Jacques.
“So when we went to Lyon, you two had already…”
Jacques hoped his friend wouldn’t finish the question. He got his wish. The two of them kept silence for a long moment, one of them standing, one of them sitting. Then Pierre went to his bedside table and sat on the bed. He opened the drawer, removed a pack of cigarettes, and helped himself to one. Jacques had the mad momentary thought that he might be offered a smoke.
The silence went on for a couple of minutes. Pierre attempted to speak a couple of times, but didn’t get more than one or two syllables out. Jacques didn’t help him. He didn’t know what to do, because he realized that his longtime reality was suddenly at an end. He didn’t want to be there, he wanted to leave immediately. That wasn’t an option, though. Their bond of friendship, or of the friendship that had existed to that point, was too strong for even considering it.
An angry expression crossed Pierre’s face, and he managed, “That fu—” before catching himself and taking a drag. He nodded several times. Then he looked at his friend with angry, sad, broken eyes. Reality had set in.
The question exploded forth. After contemplating hundreds of possible words and phrases, he produced a succinct and accusatory line: “You know I’m not over her yet. You know that.”
Jacques nodded. “I know. But man, there have been other women for you. A couple that I thought, that I hoped would turn into something. But they didn’t.”
“They didn’t because I was still, I’m still fucking shattered.”
Jacques nodded, lowered his gaze, then raised it again. “I didn’t look for this, Pierre. I don’t think she looked for it either.”
“Of course she fucking looked for it. Why not dig the dagger all the way in? It wasn’t enough for her to decimate me like that. No, she needs to rub me into the floor with her heel.”
Jacques thought about reminding him that it was he who’d finished the relationship a year earlier, but instead went with, “This isn’t about you.” That’s not quite what he meant to say, so he attempted a correction with, “I’ve known her for years. As long as you have. Why do you think this has to do with you?” He felt his temple rise a degree and added, “Or do you think she can’t like me for me?”
Pierre stood and looked out the window. There was a woman walking two dogs by the children’s park, a few boys kicking a ball around, and a man with another dog sitting on a bench and reading a magazine. As he watched, a middle-aged couple strolled in from the right. Although there were clouds in the sky, it was a beautiful day. It was a horrible day. It was grey and dreary and the end of all things. His heart felt like it was a shriveled raisin under a thirty-ton block of iron.
He had many things he wanted to ask, or that he was at least curious about: were they official? Had they had sex? Who started it? What were they doing when they spent time together? Who else knew?
“Who kissed first?”
Jacques began to answer, but Pierre interrupted him. “Never mind. I don’t want to know.” He returned his attention to the scene below.
Jacques had come here steeled for combat, for a yelling match, for accusations and poisoned questions, perhaps even for a physical confrontation. Pierre could be explosive when angered. Watching him now he realized he’d been wrong. Pierre wasn’t angry, or at least wasn’t just angry. Pierre was heart-broken. More so than he’d ever seen him, and he’d seen him in just about every mood imaginable.
“I’m sorry, Piero,” he said. “I am. But I’m also happy. Happier than I’ve been in a very long time.”
Pierre turned to look at his old friend. His eyes were lined red and a bit shiny, like he’d been crying all day, but his face was entirely dry. Not a tear had been shed.
“Well. Good for you, I guess. You know…” Now it was his turn to consider whether he wanted to say what he had in mind. He went ahead with it. “She’s not how you think she is. We were together for years. There are things I never told you. Little things that add up.”
Jacques shrugged. He wasn’t going to get into any conversations about intimacy with Maxine. Not anymore. Just as he wasn’t going to share any details about his own relationship, he had no interest in learning anything he didn’t already know. Maxine was his, and he was done sharing her.
“Alright.” Pierre nodded and squashed the long-extinguished cigarette on his ashtray. “Alright.” He shrugged.

[Author’s notes: This is based on a true story. Probably on a lot of true stories, but this is one I’m familiar with. Young love is hard.]
